-n -n -n >> It'll pick up pretty much anywhere. That way I'm not sitting here, holding. If I pick, that makes me feel uncomfortable. Let's see, this is, what do you, Christine, you like to be called Christine, Ms. Williams? Which one's- >> Some people call me Christine, some call me Miss Williams. >> Okay, I'll call you Miss Williams. We're interviewing this Christine Francis Neil Williams, Welch, West Virginia. It's the 18th day of March 1994, and it's about 1120 a.m. Eastern time. This is being done for the Kentucky Historical Society. Now, that's all that. If you could just tell us, as much as you know about your immediate ancestors, your mother, father, grandparents, where they were born, all, that's for the Kentucky Historical. >> My maternal grandparents came from down in Patrick County, Virginia. They moved to Welch when my grandfather's health began to fail in, around about 1913. The reason was that someone had told him about a doctor here who could help him with his physical problems. However, I remember on occasions his suffering with that rheumatism, and I don't think they're secure. But he worked for the railroad. He then, in his later years, worked as a gardener. He was very good at that. They reared their children here. Mamie, Irene, I think there were two or three younger older ones who died, I guess, back there when the flu was raging and things of that nature. And Irene, who died in 1919 at Welch Emergency Hospital with appendix science. >> This was your grandmother's? >> My mother's family, my grandparents. >> Grandparents family. >> And these would be your great aunts and uncles. >> My aunts and uncles. >> There was Maddie Kathleen, there was Lucien, and there was Henrietta. Lucien lived here until shortly or a couple of years before his death at about 74, 75 somewhere. My mother lived here from 1913 until her death, which was in 1984, I believe. >> And your mother's name was? >> Georgia, Bernstein, Johnson, Neal. The family owned property on Beach Street. The original house burned, but there is still a house standing there. My mother joined the St. James Missionary Baptist Church at the age of 13 and worked in that church until she became disabled. She was among the original group of women. She, of course, was a girl. They were older women who built the present church. They raised money and all to have the church built, maybe I should say, to get it started. That building is still standing on Court Street. >> Do you remember what year they built it? >> No, I don't. I didn't think to bring the kind of information with me. But my father's family came from North Carolina down in the area of Reedsville, North Carolina. They came here about the same time. I don't know the exact year. And there was Harvey, Harry, who was my father. Harry Irvin, Fred, and Beatrice Neal-Wills, who just died three or four years ago. My maternal grandmother raised four of her older daughter's children. And of course, we all were very close. There were quite a few families around. >> Was this during the Depression? >> Yes. I was born in the early 20s, 1923, in fact. Here in Welch. And I have spent my entire life, except for going to college and visits here. My parents were school teachers, both of them. However, my mother stopped teaching when I was born. My father felt that she should stay home with me. There are four of us. I and my sister, Ima Jean, my brother, Harry, who still lives in Welch. And 13 years later, my brother, John, who lives in Runaway. My sister, Ima Jean, lives in Runaway. Now, they struggled during that Depression to keep us happy. That said, I think we had a very happy childhood. We didn't realize that we were really four. My father taught school. >> What grades did he teach, to remember? >> He taught junior high. I think he started out teaching at daily in the elementary school. But then he moved to, he was moved to Welch Gunmart Junior High School, which was both in elementary and junior high school. >> And both your parents taught during, and what did your mother teach? >> My mother, they thought I was born. She taught until I was born. She taught elementary school. And the, growing up in Welch was like everybody's one big happy family. Because my parents had come here in an early age, they had grown up here. >> Well respected in the community. >> Yes. And they had both taught so many of the younger people. >> The whole community. >> And so everybody knew everybody. But it was that way almost throughout the town. >> Now, you went to school in the segregated system. >> Yes. >> And your parents taught in the segregated system. >> Yes. >> Did they ever talk about that and say that it was wrong or that it ought to be changed? Or did they ever remember just around, you know, hearing your mom and dad? Or did you think it should be changed? Or how did you feel about it? It's what I'm saying. Did it seem? >> Well, not really. I feel that I, or we, came up at that time, got a very good education. There might have been, I'm not sure, there might have been some things that the white schools had that we didn't have. But I'm not sure about that. But like I told you, we didn't know that we were poor, really. We had encyclopedias. I think, I think I might have, that first set of encyclopedias that my father bought for me. But I don't, before I even went to school. So, my mother was a very good sinster. She made our clothes and our dresses and all. And so, we didn't really realize how poor we were. >> Well, and your dad had a job all the way through the Depression, which was unusual, you know, for somebody. >> He had a job, but I can remember one time they didn't pay teachers for it. >> Because they just didn't have the money? >> They didn't have the money. >> So, even if you had a job, you didn't necessarily have a paycheck. >> Yeah, that's it. But as I say, my mother was a very good sinster. She did do some sewing for other people. And my father had a garden I can even remember. At one point that he had a piggy. And he raised chickens. He, at one point, got into raising pigeons, which I could never eat. >> Because he looked too pretty, you know? >> No. >> He just didn't like them? >> I looked at that little square out of peace of me and I didn't want it. I was some finicky about what I ate. >> And you didn't like pigeons? >> No. There were other things that I did not like. But my mother always encouraged me to try things. And she knew quite a bit. I guess she had taken classes in college in what we call home economics. And she knew quite a bit about how to do an atricious meal and how to substitute things. >> Mm-hmm. >> In order to see that you got what you needed. >> Right. Did she go to, was she a college graduate and your father a college graduate also? >> My mother had what you call a standard norm. And she did go to some, take some classes in order to be for a certificate. What's after that. But then she felt that it was better that my father have his degrees. And he had a master's degree and a principal's certificate. And he never was a principal. But we learned that from her. She taught us to sew. And I think I liked it better than my sister's to sew. Because that was my thing. And I can remember when I was quite small that my mother would say, don't touch that sewing machine. You might stick a needle in your finger. >> Mm-hmm. >> The minute she went to the clothesline or somewhere, I was on that sewing machine. And my aunt Maddie used to tell the tale that when I was, well, I wasn't, I was about 13 months old when my sister was born. And my aunt came to help out. And she said, I watched her make coal free. And she was going to put two eggs in it. And I told her, no, no, no, no. My mom only puts one. She says, you know, she, we watched what they did all along. And then she taught us how to do things. She used to read to us. I think the first thing I learned to read before going to school was a caption on the paper, the well-sparing news. And so we had, well, we had, we had playmates. We weren't all outside of the yard too much. But we had playmates in certain kinds of places we could go out. And we had a lot. We just really enjoyed growing up. And then you graduated from Welsh Dunbar. At the time that I finished ninth grade, we did have a graduation exercise. And I graduated from Welsh Dunbar. I think that I could, should have pulled all this together. But I believe I was a little bit more in a big class. And then you went out of college. And then I graduated from Kimball High School. And we had to ride the bus to Kimball, seven miles for high school. Because Kimball was, was the black school? Yes. Yes. We did not go to Welsh High School. Oh, so Welsh Dunbar went through the ninth grade. Through the ninth grade. And then all the black kids went to Kimball. They were bus to Kimball, seven miles. Bus to Kimball, seven miles. But even that, we seemed to have enjoyed. I guess there may have been times when we thought about the fact that, we were riding this bus to Kimball when there was a school over here. But we never thought about it. It wasn't a big deal. It wasn't a big deal with us. Yeah. I would, with my family. It was just always the way things had been. And we didn't worry about it. Because when my mother was going to school, there was not even a bus. She, they called it Boarded, was someone in Kimball. Stayed with them. And then she went on to what they called BCI, Bluefield College Institute at that time. What else? So then, is that where you went after high school? Yes, I went to Bluefield State College. I graduated from Bluefield State. I married the year before I graduated. I always saw a name to keep my teacher's certificate. At the time, that was during World War II. We didn't plan to be married when I graduated in 1944. We were both in the same class. But when he went to service, we decided to get married in 1943. No, I'm a 30 at 1943. And your husband's name was? Ellis Ray Williams. And he likes to be called Ray. He doesn't like that Ellis. So he went to the service. What did he do in the service? He was in the... You get this, you can't remember the name. He was in the Army or Navy? In the Army. He was in the Army. It's not that cool. I can't think. I don't know what it is. I'm not coming to you right now. But my sister also graduated from Bluefield State. I know what I started to tell you about myself. I graduated from there. I did not want to go get a master's degree. Because although I was married, my father told me if I wanted to go, he would help me. But at that point, all I wanted was to be a housewife and some children. And I didn't see a need to go at that point. But I did see a need to keep my teaching certificate, which meant that I had to go to school three times after that to get the number of hours. And I then took some classes from West Virginia U. I think the last ones I took to renew my certificate, which was a lifetime certificate after that, were from West Virginia U. I took classes from College of Graduate Studies, West Virginia College of Graduate Studies, and also some from the University of Alabama. But that came after I started to work. After we had five children, I decided, well, I'll have no work. Somebody's going to feed this, but... Yes, somebody's going to help feed. And so, that's a lot. Fine. I've got two, and that's... We had seven. Wow. I went to work for what was then the Department of Welfare. And I worked in social services. I worked in child welfare, we called it that. When she interviewed me, I didn't know one division from the other. I was just looking for a job. And, but, I guess the good Lord was looking out for me. He told me, "Child welfare was called being." And that is what I got into. That is what I enjoy. I enjoy my work. There was some bad times. How long did you do that? 25 years. 25 years. I was working for the last of children for more. And one day, I was over the start of the job, she got a 47. This week, the youngest would be 26 in May. And, you know, we celebrated how 50th wedding anniversary. No family there yet. Well, the weekend before that, because the children had it, was in front of the tenured where the oldest boy lives. And I feel that, you know, there were times we didn't have money because my husband was a teacher. He also was a very good carman, but he has built our home. He has done work for us, in addition to his teaching. In addition to his teaching. Yeah. And now he retired, right? Both of us. Yeah, he has no other teaching. No, only when somebody wants him to. He just, he worked last year. He taught or taught adults. And you retired from the human services? Yes, I retired from there. In 1985. Let me ask you a question. You know, it's really, we, Miss Holly and I got into this, and it's really, I think it's an important issue. The question that's always asked is the wrong question. The question that's always asked is the difficulties in the black family in terms of staying together. But in American family in general, it's 60% divorce rate. So that's a question that ought to be asked, which is, what do you think from your service in all these years in human services, what can you attribute? Is there one thing that we can look at and say, this is a problem with American families, or this is a problem, or is it a combination of factors, or why are families in America having such a tough time staying together? I think, probably, a lot of people are getting married without knowing what they're doing. And by that I mean that they have no idea as to what they're getting into. They have no dedication. They see it as like dating almost. Almost. Maybe so. And a lot of people don't try to prepare themselves to the point that they will be able to support. Now, when I said that I was getting married, the first thing my father said, "Are you finishing college?" And he asked my husband that. And he said, "Oh, yeah, she's going back to school. She's got a service and she hasn't gone with me. She's going to finish school." And he said, "Well, okay." At that point, you see, my father, although I was 20 years old, he had to sign the papers. At that point, 18, you were not enough. I think that our children are not encouraged, and it's not explained to them that life is not made of roses. You're going to have hard times. You're going to get disgusted. Discouraged. Discouraged and everything. You've got to work your way through all that. I can remember when I had four children. I got disturbed that day, and I said, "Well, I think I'm asleep this morning." But then I thought, "Where am I going? I'm not carrying these children along to daddy to raise." It's for us to do. So, I was all awake and I'm carrying something. I didn't have to walk very far. I was going to talk with my children. And I thought about it. I had time to think about it, and I just turned around and went, "No, I didn't say a word." Because I don't care what you do, and I've tried to instill that in my children. Everything is going to go beyond that. They're going to be a difficult time. And you're going to have to try to work those problems out. My daughter has run off this year, and first one thing, and another, my wife's been depressed, and it's just been a disaster this year. I mean, just one trauma after another. And what is it that you think, as you're sitting here, I'm sitting here thinking, and we've had a tough time. What words of advice do you have to people that are facing those kinds of... Like in the same thing you just related. You get ready to just hit the road and say, "I've had it." And what... I don't know, I guess I'm just trying to say, "How do you find the courage to... and the strength to..." I think that sometimes... I was told it would work after I had done the wrong thing. That, how the administrators said, and the state said, that there's no pride in how they said one day. I was supposed to have... I think it was a retirement for someone. I was in charge of it. And I was one of the older men on the invocation. So somebody said to me afterwards, "Did you know better than that? "It's better than what?" The woman said, "No prayer, you need." I said, "Well, I didn't ask her to pray. "I asked her to have some weeks up." "She wants to try to find the over that, "and some belly goods, you know." But I think a lot of times that we need to sit down and go for certain passages of nothing in town without children and get instruction from the mind. I think sometimes we need to let them express themselves. - And... - The children? - The children. - Yeah. - I started listening to the mind. - Yes. The things I was hearing I didn't like, and I started listening to them a little more, and I thought, "Well, maybe they're right." Well, they may not be right, but I think they just want to say something. - I want to have my say. - And they are individuals. And I can remember my mother and my mother's fist in one time, and I'd call the children if I needed them to do something, I wanted them to do something. I'd call them and they didn't answer me right at that moment. Didn't come, they might answer. My mother said, "Christie, "when you call those children, they ought to come." I said, "True." I said, "But..." You know, they have the important things they're doing too. It's no more than playing with it all. - To them it's important. - It's very important. I don't expect them to throw that ball down and come running to me. I did. That was the mistake that I made. I gave them a... If I had called them a second time, they'd have had time to get it together. And I can remember her saying that to me. And then my son, Ron, who is the middle boy, there is Elstree Junior, we call him by the name, even before he was born, Francis. Maybe you wonder what they are doing to one of their names. Elstree Junior, there's Ron Virginia. He is a school administrator. He's a businessman. He owns a laundromat. He owns a round property. I think Elstree's been there about 20 years. And his wife works at one of the banks there. I don't know if it ain't right or wrong, but she's in one of the supply repositions. She attends a presbyterian check. I think she was Baptist before. But he doesn't attend church too much. It was out of my way at the time anyway. But he supported what she does. They are both very charitable people. In fact, years or back, when the boy is about 23 now, I guess, he was 16 and they took him into their home to finish a rarity. They didn't even know whether or not he had any income. It was a little scary to us. But my son's just like that, "Ah, he'd be alright." But he had taught him in junior high. He had been helping him. He was without parents. I think both of his parents were dissidents. He was trying to live with an aunt who would throw him out of the least little thing. Somehow another boy held on and he didn't get into trouble. Her children did, but he didn't. And he had asked my son if he could live with him. My son had told him, "Richard, we aren't at home enough to have a child around you." But when she threw him out that last time, they took him in. And it's remarkable. He had planned to go into service when he finished high school, so that's what he did, and got caught up in the inside of the Arabia thing. He worked set up furniture for that. He had planned to go to college. They won't send him to college. He had planned to get started this fall, but then he started working over there. I know that he's got night classes in Saturday. But they are into just helping people. It doesn't have to be someone... This is your oldest son. Oldest son. They don't have to be someone in their church or anything like that. They bought a van so that she could go to the projects. Pick up the children there and count the sons through the church. Every Sunday she does this. She does what the Bible says in the Quran. She volunteers at the hospital. What kind of church? She's Presbyterian. And I think she was originally Baptist, but then when she finished college and moved to Virginia, she got into this church. They are both graduates of Western Junior State College. He's the graduate of BDI. That's where he did his master's work. He's like his dad. He's a construction man too. He's adding on to his... He works on the house, huh? Yeah, he's adding on to it now. I built mine pretty much. I understand that. Yeah. So we're real pleased with him and his family. They owned their own. They didn't take them too long to do that. The second girl, I mean the first girl, is in Columbus, Ohio. She and her husband both lawyers. She worked for the department of human services here for a year. The year before they married, when they married, she went to Columbus. She was going to Ohio State. Her name is? Frances Williams Purnell. And that's P-E-R-N-E-L-M. And she then went to Ohio State, got a master's in social work. She worked very little at that because they, two half-three children, the boy just turned 18. The younger girl turned 12 this month. How many grandchildren do you have? Seven. Seven. A foster grandson, that one, L-phrase. A step-granddaughter. My daughter says a step-granddaughter. But she works for the State of Ohio. And she works for the State of Ohio State University. At this point, he had been teaching in the law school. That's about it. But at this point, he's interim vice provosts of law school. They are very active in their church. The three children, as I say, keep them busy because they're into everything. And the problems will be in the college this next year. The next girl is unmarried, Patricia. She's still Patricia Williams. And, you know... What does she do? She lives in Pittsburgh. She is a supervisory position. She is their personal manager for the OK Grocery Company. And there, I guess, is... I don't know what you call it. It's a top office there. Home office? Patricia went to half the college. And at one, it was an afternoon. Institute at the University of San Francisco. And she went there two years and she decided she wanted to go to art school. And she was young. Went to Pittsburgh. The artist said, "Who's Pittsburgh?" And she's been there ever since. She worked a year in law between the two schools. And she was in business with some of her friends. What does she do at the art institute? What did she do there? She took what I call "commercial" on. Like, "Oh, there you go." They got it up and made it. But do you advertise and things like that? Yes. No. They had a business where they did printing on the campus. But the business got a little bad. So they closed it. And she said, "You know, I'm a little impatient with our young men today. They won't work in the warehouse." And they said, "You give them a job." They always stayed there. A day or so on the house. So talking about the workers can't have part. She said, "Well, I needed a job. That's where I started." She said, "There's one call." And she said, "I started it in the middle of the house. And I'm thinking she'd rather do everything to even protect those feet, computerize the mitts, and put the groceries where they come from." And she learned all of that. Because after she was in this position, she said, "We visited. We should put this out there and show this to the warehouse." So we only got five hours of sleep last night driving up here? I didn't do that either. So she says, "I really don't have patience with them. But I feel a similarity with our youth that we need to teach them to be self-sufficient. I mean, everybody at my house had to do their own things, their big things. That was an order for them to know how to do that washing. Everybody in my house had to know something about cooking and cleaning. And everybody at my house had to know something about sewing up a hole in their clubs. And if I could take that sewing machine and do a little bit of sewing, everybody always grows up. Because I felt that this was what they needed for now. I felt that they needed chores. We had chores. That's the mistake I made with my kids. They've got--my daughter works all the time, but my son does very little. And I didn't have that many chores, but I had things I had to--he feeds his-- but he's pretty good at it. He feeds his rabbit, he feeds his cat. How old is he? He's twelve. He's just not much on cleaning up his room. Well, boys go to bed. Boys go to bed. At least they need to know how. Well, he knows how. He just avoids it. He's in seventh grade. This is seventh and eighth grade. As I recall, I was pretty sorry then, too. Boys just kind of quit for a year or two until they--I guess they're getting ready to work the rest of their life. Maybe so. My older son always wanted to work outside. And he grew up with a paper. I knew that. He also worked with Crober. He was a bad boy for Crober there. And until he went to college, and he worked all through college, the Sears and Crow, places like that. Did all seven of your kids graduate from Crow? Mm-hmm. Huh? So you had to graduate all seven of them. Mm-hmm. And-- Well, I sounded to be proud of it. The next girl, Billy Joe Sanford, she murdered them all there. He used to play for the Buffalo Hills. He's a retired man. From Baltimore. [laughs] She went to Spelman College. Uh-huh. She then went to Georgia Tech and got her master's. Okay. And she was a textile engineer. She worked at that and did pretty well at that. Well, quite some time then, so she decided she wanted to be a chemical engineer and work in sales. She tried that. I don't know what happened. What happened? Right there. Mm-hmm. Well, I think it was a little bit too much ripping and running. Stayed in a suitcase. Yeah. And I think maybe they told her to-- she had a company car to be somewhere overnight. Drive some long distance overnight. And then go work the next day? Yeah. And I think that's when she just told them they could have it. And she works when she wants because she's trying to get set up in a business doing rooms for children. Good one. Rooms, you know, decorating them for children, making small piece items of furniture, bed linens and things like that. That's what she's working on at this-- How old is she? She is 40, I think. And she's once married to the ex-football player. Did he make a transition pretty easily from-- most of them don't, doesn't seem like. You know, they have a tough time. I think it was difficult for him. I remember he told my husband at one point he didn't know what he was going to do because that's all he ever done. He's played football. Played football. And he graduated from Georgia Tech. I don't remember what field he's in, but he is working for an investment company, I think. But he said that even as a small boy growing up in Georgia, he played sand-locking football. And he says, "I don't know how I'm going to adjust," but he's made a fairly good adjustment. He played with a buffalo, what was his name? Lucius Sand. He's been a few years back because he's been retired. For a while. Yeah. He played-- his last year he played for Cleveland Brown. I don't know just how many years, maybe five. Let me ask you, we've talked about-- So your life's been tremendously involved with children, just your own and the communities. The communities. And I'm sure everybody in town knows you, you know, because they've seen you working with kids. I guess so. And what do you see as the future for what we've kind of talked about, you're growing up and the present, what do you see as the future for the county and the state and the region? For this area, I work with the city, with the Chamber of Commerce, I'm on their board. And we're constantly trying to find something. I also work with the Woodmore Housing Authority. We're constantly trying to find something for employment, employment wise. We work with revitalizing downtown. We have an excellent mayor, she's working with that. They are tearing down all the old beat up houses, ribbon down houses. I think that Buck Harlow's and his lumber company, or timber company, whatever, has made a few jobs. But now we need more jobs. When my children finished college and grew up, I can say that over there-- They all had a little more-- --were a kid. They all moved off. There was no work now. That's when it hit me. There was no work for black kids. Well, they're young black. Was there work for white kids? So much. But what did you see it as? The reason I'm asking is just because the way you phrased it. It was like there was nothing here for us. That's right. Why wasn't there? What had happened? What had happened to this sense of community? The coal mines had closed. So in a way-- A lot of people who had degrees worked in that coal mine. A variety of ways. We no longer had segregated schools where they could work. And most of-- Where they would be guaranteed employment. Most of our schools were absorbed into the white schools. So then you don't-- Pippus teacher who has been working there for years, often has a continuing countertrack. I work to give somebody else from a school that has closed the job. So did you see-- So there's two factors here we're talking about. One factor is by the closing of the coal mines. And they more or less didn't care. I guess what color anybody was from what I heard it was-- They were just interested in making money. Then about it it would work. Yeah, that's it. And so that's one thing that when they pulled out, that was a disruptive influence. And then in a sense what I'm hearing from you is is that integration kind of worked in a reverse sort of way. And-- That while it may have helped the younger kids coming up and destroyed the educational elite in the black community who otherwise would have been posthumous role models. A lot of families had to get up and move because-- and of course that dropped your school population. Oh, as the coal mines left them. Right. The people moved. They moved to the city anywhere they could go to find a job. And you've seen all that, I guess the big out migration occurred of course back in the '50s. In the early '60s and you saw all that. But the same thing was happening in the black community as it was in the white-- even more so in a way. Yes. It sounds like everybody left. It wasn't just-- Mostly. Most of the people where I live in the black community are retirees, most of them. There's not a new generation coming up. Well, they're moving in from somewhere, but they don't seem to be the kind that want to go to school or to really progress. So the work ethic is different. It seems to be different. And the education and the school ethic is different. Yes. Yes. Because when we went to that black school, then we knew we had to get it. Because what we did in the teacher was going to call mom. And then you were in trouble. Now, we have a black principal at Montview High School now. They seem to be improving because she can really work with the total group. We have a black principal at the middle school. However, I think I saw in the paper where he's just going to go back to teaching. I don't think he's getting the support that he needs. Do you think that it's been-- do you think it's easier for black teachers and black administrators to work with white kids than it is white administrators and white teachers to work with black kids? But in my view, she seems to be working-- Making some progress. Making some progress. Because there were quite a few problems. And discipline problems. And I personally, I don't know what somebody else is hearing, but I haven't heard of this many discipline problems. And I've been trying to work with this program that they have in the school. It's called PASS, where you work for half an hour each week with a student to try to build that student's self-esteem and to help that student stay in school. Well, that's good. They did that when I was working in Washington, DC, for a year. They did that in the schools. And it worked very well. They had all the people going in tutoring, having kids, and then just take four or five kids. Well, I think they have those volunteers in for that. But this past thing, you're going in your top-- Well, you know, the thing that I keep hearing is that was successful back in the old days that I can certainly remember. When I was going to-- I remember that this is community involvement in the schools, parental involvement in the schools. And it's almost like now, I just went to an M-team with my son. It's almost now, like the schools, they don't want the parents. You know, they say they do. And see, I taught in the public schools for seven years. But we developed-- I know that we developed a real war zone mentality where it was us against them. You know, and I saw a statistic the other day where it said, "78% of the teachers or something thought that the parents didn't like them or whatever." And I said, "Really, what it is is 78% of the teachers don't like the parents." That's it. That's it. Because-- They feel that they're threatened by them. I know with my two younger children, I guess I went to the school more than I did with the others. Because-- And it was not because there was a real discipline problem. There were other things happening. And when it came up, then, you know, I went to talk. The middle boy who is now at-- He works at Johns Hopkins. He's their training coordinator. Anyway, he went to an integrated school at the third grade. They're going to put him down in the lower group. Well, he was lazy as a kid. He would-- I used to say, "I believe that boys retire." And my mother said, "No, he'll probably do more than any of them. He isn't retired." But he would use that to keep doing things at home. I like that. But I knew he wasn't that retired. That she just was a white woman, principal. That she would stick him down there. So my husband was-- I think he was a principal then. Because he's a retired school principal. He said, "Well, you go see a boy. You don't want to send me. You go with me to keep me under control." Because I've heard too much about this lady. Even the latest where I work saying, "Don't fool with that woman." She just does things like this. And they weren't black women that told me that. She's just that white. I said, "You go with me." I said, "They'll tell us. Don't tell them what will happen." So we went. And she said, "Well, she just put him in the high group." I guess she thought she was a flunk. I said, "No, I'm not asking you to do that." I said, "But I know it doesn't belong down here. You put him in the middle group." He later told me, "See, you should have made it put me in that high group." I would have worked up to that. But he had a problem, some kind of problem with reading. Was he dyslexic, you think? No, I think he was just a lady. That's like my boy. He reads all the time and makes D's and F's in school because he could care less. He didn't make D's and F's, but he didn't make that honor like the other children. He's up to B's and C's now more than he was. I said, "They're all individuals." Some of them she got to a life of. But finally, one of his teachers, and it was a white lady, went to Welch High School. She was Welch High School then, he went there. She asked my husband if we would mind if she worked with him on whatever this problem was. And she did. So as a result, he has his master's degree and he's soon to have his doctor. He teaches a class in addition to his other job. He teaches several classes for the university. He's going to John Jones. And she had him in a slow class. That's funny. And he used to tell me, "I'm going to get on him about his grades even in high school." When you're a web press, don't look at me because you've got the opportunity. I won't have anything to do with it. That's all right, I'll use my brain when I have to. He was an honor roll student at the University of Tampa. He organized the black students there. But now he has in his mind what he thinks things ought to be. He was president of the organization for two years. When somebody else's turn came up, you could only be president for two years. Then they started partying. And he said that wasn't his intention. It was for the betterment of the black student on that campus. And he left it. But as I said, he graduated there with honors. And the funny thing was when we were getting ready to go to graduation that day, he said, "Mom, I think there is something I ought to tell you before we go around there." And I thought to myself, "I don't know what this board will get a blank piece of paper." He said, "I think I'm graduating with honors." I guess he thought we'd have a heart attack. I said, "Oh, that's all right." That's okay. I can live with it. But he got his master's from Johns Hopkins. He's going to George Washington. And that experience that he had there was that one of the professors, I don't know if it was the field he's in, and I can't tell you exactly what that is. But whether it was a particular class, one of the professors told him, "Uh-uh, you can't do this." And then he knew that it was because he was black. He said, "You and I can't do this." And Ronald said, "Mm-hmm." And then he didn't know what he did. So I told him, "Yes, I am, and I'm going to do it. Just give me more." And he did. He's still doing it. And he had talked about it for a while, and he has, they are active in their church. They have two children. And they are. He has decided to go into the ministry, and he has already written his letter. But he says he doesn't want to pass to a church. He wants to get into some other phase. He just told us that about two weeks ago. But this is the child she had in. In the slow group. I think it was her prejudices that she couldn't deal with. And it's like I would so often tell them at work. I said, "And we all have prejudices." I said, "But we have to learn how to handle them, how to deal with them." I said, "We all got it. If it's not about races, about something else. So you have to learn to deal with it. You have to be tolerant of the other fellow." And I don't think she could deal with it. And those black children coming to Welch Elementary School at that time, and she gave some of them a hard way. And a lot of the parents did. Act in a manner that I didn't want to act in. But that's what I wanted my husband with. And so, but... I take my wife and me when I get upset. She could just calm me down. But, well, I tell you, let's... If you had one thing, two questions I'd like to ask you. What do you see for the future here for the community? I guess that's the first question I'd like you to... I have a lot of people, I'm crazy, but I have hopes. I'm bouncing back. Back to what? Back to jobs, back to a larger population. Our population is down. And if our population increases, then the jobs will become. And I think we have got to sell our community to other areas in order to have them. And my last... It's not a question. You've got one opportunity here at the end to sum up, to tell us what you're happy about, what you're mad about, what you're glad about, what ought to be changed, what ought to be left the same. Your one thing you want to leave us with today, what would it be if you had to sum it all up and one... You know, you spent your life here in the cold fields, you know, has it been good, has it been bad, has it been... What would you say? Yes, I spent my life here in the cold fields. I have... Mostly I had a happy life. I have not had anything to be unhappy about. As I said, we had a happy childhood growing up. We weren't rich, we didn't have sense enough to know that we weren't. We were very poor. But... And I think the same thing with my children. I'm very pleased that we could bring them up. All of them are self-supporting. Graduated from college? Graduated from college. They all do very well. The youngest just moved to Missouri. He's working, but he's an electrical engineer. And he wants to find something in that field and go back to school. The youngest girl is in computer science. She's in Pittsburgh and she's doing fine. So I'm happy about all of those things. I'm happy that we were reared with religious principles, Christian principles. We were taught to be tolerant of the other fellow. We were taught... And I think that's another thing that we need to teach our children. And I did. My oldest girl got a whip in one day from me. My husband walked in and said, "What are you doing that for?" She didn't do that. Lucky did. I said, "She followed him." I had to go out for a few minutes. The neighbor was watching them when they came off in school and they decided to go somewhere else and plot. My buddy did. And my buddy said it was because boys came and he wanted to take them away. He knew that they were not supposed to have other children there. We weren't there. But she went with him. And she got the whip in the spanking because she went with him. You did not have to go with him. You could have stayed with the neighbor or you could have sat on a porch. It was not cold weather until I came back. You know that I don't leave for a long time. You learned to think for yourself. Everybody is supposed to be responsible for themselves. And I think that parents need to do that. Of course, I think we are now seeing the results of the sixties where everybody do their own thing. Everybody do their own thing. And those are the parents that we have today. And everybody is going in a hundred different directions. Everybody is going in a hundred different directions. Even those parents are not working. I think it actually takes two to make a living these days. And I have nothing against both parents working. It's economic necessity pretty much. Yes, I did it. And I didn't have any problems. Of course, I know when my children were small, I had other family here. But I see nothing wrong with that. Okay, we'll call it quits. And if you've got anything else you want to... Hey, I did it. [BLANK_AUDIO]
