-n -n -n Unknown Speaker 0:03 It's March 19 1994, interviewing Francis Paton, Rutherford peal box 311 corretta West Virginia 24821 phone 304-875-4483 This has been done for the Kentucky Historical SocietyUnknown Speaker 0:31 okay, if you would just tell us who your grandparents were andUnknown Speaker 0:35 we all have two sets they were jam and Cora Blanche Harmon and GM and Leola Patton. And the Harmon side of the family has been in McDowell County for about four generations. And the patent side of the family is actually from around Cedar Bluff, Virginia. And that's about 35 miles from here, hour and a half drive. And I was one of the folks that was kind of fortunate, I actually named my great grandparents. On my dad's side, they were I never actually knew the first names. It was just always nippers, they were neighbors.Unknown Speaker 1:24 SoUnknown Speaker 1:27 you know, several times people have asked me what my great grandparents names were and what one of the things I try to teach my daughters everybody's first name, because it was always me and my neighbor, and Papa neighbor. And I never knew their names. And for generations, it was Mr. This or Ms. Mears is that infrared, and no one had a first name.Unknown Speaker 1:54 So you ended up not knowing who anybody was? Uh huh.Unknown Speaker 1:57 And my, the patent side, my dad's side of the family were farmers and subsistence really subsistence farming, small farming in Virginia, and the Harmon side of the family. The first couple generations that I knew about the county were farmers and mountaineers. But then the last two generations have been coal miners. In fact, my granddad and my granddad. We used to tell stories about when the CO operators and logging people came in, and actually manipulated the land away from his family. The Harmon family owned a major part of the creek district, where we are right now for many, many years. And my great granddaddy on my dad's side on my mom's side, sold the land for a little bit of money. I don't know why don't remember how much and then sold it's also had a wagon and a team of horses. Cows at that time, he wanted to move out to McDowell County, Montana, and move to Bluefield where the rest of his family was well with a horse and buggy. Bloomfield was pretty far distance. And granddaddy can remember his daddy sale on the land, and not really thinking too awfully much about it. Because it was just rocks and mountains and cliffs and you couldn't do a whole lot with the land. And so he thought he had gotten a real deal to get some cash in his pocket in wagons knew to move his family up to Bluefield where there was work. And then it wasn't long after that, that my great granddaddy kind of saw that maybe that wasn't the best decision. You know, they started logging and coal mining. And I really know more about my mom's side of the family because they're from McDowell County. And then my dad's side of the family actually has stayed in for me. Over in the Cedar Bluff backup, one of the Hollis and my uncle, her Herman, who just recently died stayed on the old homeplace over there, and he farmed it till he died.Unknown Speaker 4:37 What was your mother's father's name?Unknown Speaker 4:40 My mother's name was Virginia, Patton, Virginia Harmon pay, and my dad was Harry Lee Patton.Unknown Speaker 4:50 And how many brothers and sistersUnknown Speaker 4:53 Altogether there were nine of us that they're not all leaving. They'llUnknown Speaker 4:58 give their names and things I wonder where we're living now.Unknown Speaker 5:03 Okay. Sharon Gail pattern. And she lives in Georgia, right outside of Atlanta in a small town, Charles Allen pattern. And he lives in Richmond, Virginia. And then me, and I live in Korea, and I have a twin brother who died when he was four and a half months old. And then I have to see it, suddenly, they have syndrome. And I have another set of twins. The wanna K pattern and reader Bay Patton, and both of them live in Orlando, Florida, with their families. And then my baby brother out is Ray Patton, and he lives in Orlando. When my father was coal miner, Harry Patton was a coal miner. And he got laid off when mechanization came into the coal fields in McDowell County in the early 50s.Unknown Speaker 6:14 Where did he start?Unknown Speaker 6:16 Oh, I'm not exactly sure. It was after World War Two, because he actually came over from Virginia.Unknown Speaker 6:27 You know how old he was when he went into the mines?Unknown Speaker 6:31 Oh, that my dad was probably around 22 When he went in the minds.Unknown Speaker 6:36 Okay, so he came over right after World War Two was in World War Two.Unknown Speaker 6:39 Uh huh. Nathan.Unknown Speaker 6:44 So he survived World War Two, went to work in the mines he was wanting to then your mother, when did he married your mother?Unknown Speaker 6:54 He married my mom in 1946. They moved to the downtown. No, actually, he came over here and got a job. And met my mom and stayed in McDowell County. He didn't go back to Virginia. And then they got married and 46. And my first the first child, Sharon, was born in 47. And then I was born in 49, my brother and I, and they just kept on having kids until they decided they had had enough, I guess. But actually, I wasn't raised by my biological parents. I was raised by an aunt and an uncle.Unknown Speaker 7:39 Why do they have to take care ofUnknown Speaker 7:43 that, I think that was a part of it. My, they were sharing Gail, and my baby brother, and myself. My mom and dad had like three little ones and diapers. And also my aunt, midwife at my birth. And in fact, the woman who raised me was the first person who ever touched me. She caught me when I was born, not the doctor, and she couldn't have children. And she used to tell people all the time that she just told me that, you know, just as soon as as I hit this earth, but she knew that she wanted me and that she did everything in her power to steal me.Unknown Speaker 8:30 So how did you feel about that being raised by Grant?Unknown Speaker 8:34 Well, at the time, I didn't see anything really odd about that. You know, because our family always stayed very close. And one house to the other. Yeah. And didn't make a big difference to make till they moved to Florida. And my real parents, like, my aunt and uncle lived in one house, my mom and dad lived in the next house, right? There was like maybe 10 feet 10 or 20 feet between the two houses. I think it's probably the best thing that ever happened to me.Unknown Speaker 9:08 He got raised by people that had one child, as opposed to people had eight or nine.Unknown Speaker 9:13 But my mom, my real mother,Unknown Speaker 9:16 I believe they were meant to for your money and clothes and was kind of as opposed to your own parents.Unknown Speaker 9:24 Yeah, they, they, in fact, they really were your parents. They were my parents. When I talk about my mom and dad. That's, that's who I talk about. And when you interviewed me about my real mother and father, then I have to step back and kind of think about, you know, these answers for them, because actually, of the family so I was closer to my uncles. They were more my grandparents. WhatUnknown Speaker 9:51 the situation that you're describing. Really wasn't that uncommon. Was it because my I know that my mother she was she's been a lot of times He raised in Michigan and her brother, no one there was a group of people that ran a store that he worked for and kept. They very rarely talk or any cramping given into it. They liked him so much. And so it was not uncommon for and I think if I'm not mistaken, one of the children did stay with somebody for two or three years because they had no, they couldn't afford to keep them. And there were too many males. So well, what year did you say you were born?Unknown Speaker 10:37 I was born 1949. August 1.Unknown Speaker 10:43 You're three months old.Unknown Speaker 10:45 I was born at 332 is what my mom tells me anyway. She said, that's when she caught me. I used to tell people, my mom was there when I was born. And they would look at me like where are most mothers?Unknown Speaker 10:59 Well, what was it like growing? Did you what count Did you live in?Unknown Speaker 11:07 I was born in war, and was raised in Korea.Unknown Speaker 11:11 Most year was incorrect. What was it like growing up in credit here in the 50s? In the 60s? Where do you go to school?Unknown Speaker 11:18 I went to school elementary school right here in this building credit Elementary. And then junior high, I jumped on a school bus and traveled to Colwood which is about five miles across the mountain. And then for high school, I came back the other way and went to be Creek High School and graduated from high school in 1967. AndUnknown Speaker 11:43 how many brothers and sisters brothers and sisters you have all graduated from high school?Unknown Speaker 11:48 Everyone ever my half? Half of them?Unknown Speaker 11:55 Which ones graduated from college and where did they go? And what did theyUnknown Speaker 12:01 say? I want them we all went to college in Florida.Unknown Speaker 12:11 I also went to college in Florida because financially, I got a good deal to go to school down there. Because with now I didn't graduate yet. I almost finished and someday sooner or later I'll go back. Let's see. Now it's something I'm not sure exactly what Sharon Gail graduated in. She owns her own small business in Atlanta. And I guess she did business administration. And my brother Charles now what is it exercise physiology. Because my my real dad had a real bad heart and Charles Soule things there and he didn't like and he thought he could become a professional person and help make some changes there. And he did that for a while. But now he's he's in sales. I don't know exactly what happened. I have not kept in real close contact with my brothers and sisters. And then my baby brother, I just re graduated. And he's in small business. And he got a degree in physical education. And he's a marathon person. And, or the Caslon. That's one where you do all of the stuff. Let's say 44 od use 33 male and he's in the calf lawn and he loves it. He has his own small business around exercise equipment and stuff like that. And he also does some things in soil testing. I don't know exactly how, how that all works in with him. Because I was actually raised with another my mom stole two children. So when I talk about my brother, it's the other person that was raised with me, actually was actually my cousin. She She just went around from sister and brother to stones.Unknown Speaker 14:45 Your your brothers and sisters became essence to you. Became a brother. And was it a real close family?Unknown Speaker 14:56 Well, we did at one time when all The men were working in the coal mines in the late 40s and early 50s. Every one of my aunts and uncles lived within a half a mile of each other. And all of my cousin's all of us. Well, we were always there to gather, you know, and it when my granny Harman core blank, Charmin would fix dinner. It wasn't unusual for 50 people to be there every day. Because we all went to Granny's de because that'sUnknown Speaker 15:40 just all over the houseUnknown Speaker 15:41 all over the house. And she had set up well, we call them picnic tables today, but I saw horses now with that, and it was done every day. Because we all went there for separate bed, they all went there for breakfast.Unknown Speaker 15:57 So it was nothing unusual for everybody to be agreeing onUnknown Speaker 16:01 it. If you weren't granting harm, and set somebody up, find out why you weren't there, fortunately. AndUnknown Speaker 16:11 how long did it go on for like the late 40s in the 50s.Unknown Speaker 16:16 It went on till migrating harm and had a strike in 1953. And then she died in December of 1954. But she was the matriarch until the day she that she had a stroke. And then my mom, my aunt that raised me, was the oldest doubter. And she kind of took on that mantle. You know, we kept my granny Harmon when she was a paraplegic. And everybody just kind of came half a mile up the road. And so my mom cooked for everybody, you know, and in fact, continued with that, until she died eight years ago. And lots of my aunts and uncles and cousins left in the 50s, because the men lost. My uncles lost their jobs in the coal mines. But they always came back home. You know, every holiday, we had 50 people. And it was if we had less than 50, we didn't think we had a crowd. And everybody came in and stayed at my mom's house for vacations and my family never really got broken away from from McDowell County. And, in fact, the folks that the uncles that lived once they retired from the jobs and primarily Detroit line went up to the auto industry, my family and every one of them have relocated here after they retired.Unknown Speaker 18:05 So they're part of this great migration and people back. Yeah. Have you noticed lots of as they come back in, I've heard lots of comments about people moving back in all of them haven't been complimentary problems back when that happened to your family have you have had these come back and kind of settled in and it was pretty much like before they left, or had they brought kids and grandchildren back where they have got problems or once again, likeUnknown Speaker 18:36 a mixed bag, a little of both.Unknown Speaker 18:40 Several of my cousins have actually relocated to Mackinac County. And let's say four of my cousins have relocated, one has relocated very well. And he had gone through a fairly difficult divorce before he came back anyway. And married. No, he's my my age. And he came back and he found a woman that he fell in love with and has started a second family and has become just a part of the community. It was like a new left here. And he's the president of local union in the county and all of that stuff. And it was like Edie was the oldest of my uncle woodfords voice and was born and spent probably the first eight years of his life in McDowell County.Unknown Speaker 19:43 So he's settled back in pretty well,Unknown Speaker 19:45 pretty well. And then my other aunt and uncle that's moved back from Florida, actually, their oldest was born in the county but their two younger sons were not and you All three of the do McCain back for a while, and but their oldest son Buuren actually ended up leaving and going to Maryland. And he and his he married in McDowell County girl. And he and Lois, though moved to Maryland. The other two have stayed in the county, and have had some difficulty. They were both born in urban environments, and raised in urban environments, and have some difficulty with the rural environment. That is Matt Bell County.Unknown Speaker 20:43 We had a hard time fitting in.Unknown Speaker 20:46 Yes. Now both of them married McDowell County women. And one is a construction worker and he still kind of travels. So he kind of gets out of McDowell County and comes back. And he's done the last few years fairly well, living here, but the other one doesn't get out of the county match. And he's not real happy. But they're now in their late 30s and early 40s. And at least Larry, I think feels that he's trapped here. Now the rest of the ones that were taken away and chose to come back for different reasons. Feel that they kind of had a choice. But Larry just kind of followed the family. I thinkUnknown Speaker 21:39 I can understand his feelings. I think because I grew up. I was born in Ohio, I lived there till I was 12. Then because of my health and because my mother and dad separated for a time and dad was not doing well in a factory world. Mom brought us back to Tennessee. And I felt and have to decrease you felt trapped ever since. But cause it was like I was somewhere who I didn't necessarily want to be but I didn't have any way out of it. And and it was very difficult to where I was raised in Ohio. I was treated like dirt because I was a hillbilly. When I moved back south. I was treated like dirt because I was again Yeah, so I really never, the idea of cultural dislocation is something that I'm probably going to pursue in my work in graduate school. Because I think it's really people that are disconnected from their culture. I think they're just misplaced disconnection, period. And some, like you, you say, you're one cousin who lived here till he was eight and came back. I think he just kind of reconnected. You know, after a period of relocation has settled in the other one is just like kind of lost out in space. And that's more or less it a lot of times, and while I'm very comfortable in the mountains and with the people in the mountains, fundamentally, probably. Mentally, I'm probably Midwestern, or I probably think like, very pragmatic. Why don't they do it this way? We do it this way in Cleveland. This is and I tend to be short, and brusque and abrupt. And, you know, that's, that's just part of that Midwest. personality. But at the same time, then I've got all these other character traits that are that are from three to 100 years living in the mountains. So it's really, really hard to find your place when you get moved over.Unknown Speaker 23:42 Well, I take that with me. I've never to use this. Oh, well, for me, I was gonna say was that I guess in the late 50s and early 60s, I kind of heard the VISTA message about Appalachian people being or Appalachia being kind of a second rate place that we needed out of these folks from the outside to come in and save and that the urban environment is is better, more creative and you know, the people there are not second right and you know, all of that. And somewhere along the line I heard that message and bought into it and couldn't wait to leave when I graduated from high school, likeUnknown Speaker 24:33 many kids from the regionUnknown Speaker 24:36 and went to school in Florida chose toUnknown Speaker 24:40 graduate what year was 67 after FloridaUnknown Speaker 24:43 take off to Florida and went to school there now much graduated and got married and ended up did you marry a Florida boy, actually married boy from Chicago talking about another Midwestern place and I We ended up coming back here. And he was miserable. He hated it. Just despiseUnknown Speaker 25:08 the lack of activity. Worrying about things going on.Unknown Speaker 25:14 I don't know if there was anything he liked about it. Yeah, he was really. He was really displaced. He was an urban person.Unknown Speaker 25:25 He was a creature of urban habits. Yes.Unknown Speaker 25:27 And there wasn't enough going on there. The people didn't think like he thought out. Just he wasn't. He was Lutheran. That was just a Bangor Catholic. Just about as closeUnknown Speaker 25:44 the Catholic as he was. About as close to it as you could get. AndUnknown Speaker 25:50 I knew a lot of I never actually went to Lutheran Church, but I knew lots ofUnknown Speaker 25:55 Angela just there. It just displaced just didn't suiting at all. And we divorced. Because this place suited me what?Unknown Speaker 26:06 Got married 19. Six. Deena in 1972.Unknown Speaker 26:13 Oh, so that just didn't last at all. And no, it was even worse.Unknown Speaker 26:17 Oh, let's say John was 26.Unknown Speaker 26:20 So on the whole you think probably that it wasn't personal problems that split you up as much as he was just culturally dislocated and couldn't deal with it?Unknown Speaker 26:31 That was a big part of it. Truly. And yeah, and you know, we all tend to make mistakes when we're like,Unknown Speaker 26:41 you got divorced, and you're still here. You're just like Florida wasn't really.Unknown Speaker 26:46 I went to Washington, DCUnknown Speaker 26:47 to see if it was in Washington.Unknown Speaker 26:52 Because I had screens up. I had a wonderful time. I had one motto in Washington DC, and that was I was gonna try everything thing once. And I try my damnedest to live up to my goal.Unknown Speaker 27:08 And you succeededUnknown Speaker 27:10 very well, I didn't do everything there was in Washington, DC to do, but I tried. And I love the CD. I really loved Washington. There were all of those things that cities are supposed to offer. You know, I went to the museums and went to the plays and the operon. Oh, I loved it. I knew I liked Oh, yeah, always. And I worked and I made good money. And I lived by myself, which was just real different. Because women weren't supposed to do that. I was working for a law firm up there thinking about actually going into paralegal, five state in DC out of probably going back to school and become a paralegal. But and I worked in in the northwest, I worked in downtown DC, I worked on a couple blocks from the White House and was involved in some politics, and I don't see how you live in Washington, DC and not being violent.Unknown Speaker 28:29 You get so caught up in beltway politics, that it becomes a reality in and of itself, which probably in many instances 80% of the time has absolutely no connection to the rest of the world. And certainly not to the rest of the world.Unknown Speaker 28:47 But I just left it up thereUnknown Speaker 28:50 it Washington Post reading.Unknown Speaker 28:53 Oh, yeah. But where are we? This little one law firm that I worked with. It was a it was just a really wonderful experience because they had people from all over. And until I went to Washington, DC, I've never really met northerners. And to be quite honest, they think very well of northerners. Now, they they will carpetbaggers you know that was how I'd been raised. Northerners were carpetbaggers and, andUnknown Speaker 29:31 beggars. How did you define that term here in West Virginia? mine owners or orUnknown Speaker 29:38 or primarily they were thatUnknown Speaker 29:41 you saw the people who own the mines as people from up north and they were exploiting you folks andUnknown Speaker 29:47 well, they were the ones that came down and gave my great granddaddy $10 and told him what a good deal they get.Unknown Speaker 29:55 Yeah, you're relating more to that incident. Then to them too. In the minds and those kinds of things,Unknown Speaker 30:02 well, that and plus my granddaddy Harmon was helped to organize the UFW day here in the county. And my granddaddy Harmon raised me in the in the late 20s and early 30s. He raised me not to trust northerners and not to trust Republicans. They want the good northerner and they sure want the good Republican,Unknown Speaker 30:36 which is kind of unusual since West Virginia was kind of founded by Republicans, wasn't it?Unknown Speaker 30:41 This whole county was Republican. Well, it and it's part of being a Democrat, was part of what made my granddaddy so radical because Oh, absolutely.Unknown Speaker 30:58 It was a burn downUnknown Speaker 30:59 guy. Absolutely. He was. And he stayed with us. He lived with us for 17 years my granddaddy HarmonUnknown Speaker 31:07 so stay ready to go kill him.Unknown Speaker 31:10 He was the first breath they breathe was radical. And the last one he breathed was radical. There was no doubt he was a radical person.Unknown Speaker 31:18 Well, you know, a lot of the a lot of the, you know, back in the 30s, for organizing stuff, anybody that was in favor of the Union, they were accused of being communists and socialists. Did he did he have to put up with a lot of that and did you hear any of that at home and see any of it I mean, was it by the time he came along at the new NWA was pretty much had been around a while and was loved and respected.Unknown Speaker 31:44 Well, it been around a while. But he may have just important who you talk to.Unknown Speaker 31:52 But by and large, it's a fair statement to say that in the West Virginia coalfields a UFW A is highly regarded and supported by the vast majority of fans.Unknown Speaker 32:03 And my granddaddy always told stories. My stable family around here has something cultural, and its background music or art or storytelling, and my family was storyteller. And granddaddy would sit around for hours and tell stories aboutUnknown Speaker 32:26 Mormon Stories.Unknown Speaker 32:28 Wally, I always tell him about union organizing. And I always tell him about being shot and beaten, hiding, hiding out for weeks in the mountains from getting shot and to keep from being killed by law bound Phelps, people. AndUnknown Speaker 32:48 people, they're not just a figment of people's imagination, they really did exist,Unknown Speaker 32:52 and they really did kill people.Unknown Speaker 32:55 Very real good. Yes, sir. That's right.Unknown Speaker 32:58 And so that whole idea of made one that that's a real thing.Unknown Speaker 33:03 That's, I mean, that was the stories that I grew up on.Unknown Speaker 33:08 And what's his tell us his his the one you remember the best, his most famous story that you always remember? If you got one to recall,Unknown Speaker 33:16 and my granddaddy worked at warrior minds, co kentley. And it was adrift mouth and you had to walk into the mind. And granddaddy was a fairly young man, I imagine in his late 30s. And this man had a lot of gas in it. And it was real dangerous. The tarp worked all the time and failing and everything, but that's where granddaddy work, because that's where he could get a job. And he had to raise his 11 kids. And he went in one day. And in the sections in the coal mines, if the top is working bad, and they think it's gonna cave in, or if there's gas in that section that's gonna kill you. Back then they would just put up like a tube monitor before but maybe two bits way off across it. And they'd write big letters danger. And that was called a danger board. And you couldn't go past that danger board because you knew if you did just go and die, in all likelihood, and this boss had told my granddaddy to go back behind that danger board and bring a piece of equipment or something out. I never really understood why when granddaddy was ordered to go past the danger board, that was way off. And that may well be in it because by the end, granddaddy was doing a little bit on labor organizing. And they told granddaddy to go back and he refused to go past the danger board and they fired him on the spot and tell him to walk out of the mines and turn in all his stuff that belong to the company. And granddaddy war lived about two and a half miles from Maury worked and granddaddy walked back then. And by the time that my granddaddy had walked out of that coal mines and walked home, they had evicted his wife and all of his children. And by the time that my granddaddy got home, my granny Harman was starting to cook the sirpur the evening meal on an old wood stove, sitting in the middle of the road, with all the children, their beds and everything she had set up outside. They had kicked them because they own the house that my granddaddy leave. Warrior man, Warrior, warrior man. I don't know who I am that my granddaddy never told us the year it was probably in the early 30s.Unknown Speaker 36:11 So what did he do?Unknown Speaker 36:13 Well, they stay they live in that road for about six weeks. And my grandma and granddad cooked and everything. And the same batch of Harmons that my great granddaddy had moved to my great uncle actually came down and took my granddaddy and his family up to Bluefield to this big farm that they had up there for 101.Unknown Speaker 36:42 That said, I've got the beautiful blue. Yeah. So he had actually gone to Bloomfield and later plays.Unknown Speaker 36:50 Yeah. And they came back down and got granddaddy and his family. And it took six weeks to do it took six weeks to do it. Why granddaddy tells a story. He wasn't crazy about doing it, you know, because there was a whole bunch of kids and stuff. AndUnknown Speaker 37:08 we want to let the kids know.Unknown Speaker 37:11 But they actually not only did they fire my granddaddy for not going into place that would kill him in the coal mines. Not only did they avec my granddad in his whole family from the house within two hours, they also blacklisted My granddaddy. And however the word got around back then my granddad can never ever find another job in another mine. And that's when he actually started union organizing full time because the management the CO operator had, from what I understand my granddad had come dabbled in organizing a little bit before. But then they they fired him and blacklisted him and he didn't have any other choice. So he just went into union organizer full time and helped to organize the UWA here in McDowell County and hated hated Yeager, Gary Haller because that's where he was assigned to organize and USD or something there. And every time the union would offer the miners something, to organize us still would offer them something a little better not to organize, and, and even in his 80s we would drive over to watch and there's a stoplight there and you turn left to get a wheelchair you turn right to go up Gary holler. And I'd always ride with my granddaddy. I thought he was the greatest thing in the world. And he had rolled down that back window and he would spend towards the toward Gary B for Gary and roll that wind up and turn his back.Unknown Speaker 38:56 And he didn't think very much people from Jaeger either. I mean from gearing eitherUnknown Speaker 39:01 because they would never did they never vote to goUnknown Speaker 39:03 up. They finally voted. They finally forUnknown Speaker 39:07 years, and then we're having to look up their way on that's where he got beat. And that's where he got a shot. Very little use for the he had very little all the shooting and beat did happen because of the ball and Phelps people are because of the other people up in there that just didn't want to be union or I thinkUnknown Speaker 39:27 it happened because of all of those reasons. The Bible Phelps was the was just one tool that the companies used. What a movie to keep from organizing. Actually, as far as I'm concerned, they're most effective tools for what they did my granddaddy the threat of losing your job. Yeah, and they rarely ever actually did that. But they kept people intimidated in line by using the threat of kicking out in and making your family homeless and, and making it reallyUnknown Speaker 40:06 what happened to him that serve as an example everybody else. Okay, well, boy when you were growing up, let's see when you were then you you came here What did you rewear?Unknown Speaker 40:18 Two years ago?Unknown Speaker 40:20 Yes. I didn't like being marriedUnknown Speaker 40:23 very much.Unknown Speaker 40:26 Cause I'd actually beenUnknown Speaker 40:29 out and away from here and found out that women could do things that we were never allowed to do here. Am I like my granddaddy? Oh, yeah. Yeah, sinceUnknown Speaker 40:40 you admired him, and I know you were telling stories. Okay, so So you feel like this idea of activism that that whatever is it you maybe came from the things that he did the stories that he did the idea of the shootings and the beatings that didn't scare you away from it, or No, causeUnknown Speaker 40:57 granddaddy always raised his children and, and influenced his grandchildren to understand that there are some things in this world worth dying for. And that if you're not willing to stand up and fight, then you're never going to be able to get anything, you know, and granddad had just always kind of believed in the basic basic worth of people of human beings, and that there were certain things that all people had a right to, and that sometimes you had to fight for that. And if you had fight, oil fight, you know, and that's just how my granddaddy always was, and then my mom who was the Harmon my aunt, was my grandma, your mom, my mama, that was my granddad. He's doubter. Being the oldest daughter, she just had always heard granddaddy stories, and she was quite a fighter herself. And then the man she married, I just raised my uncle was a union was a labor leader. granddaddy, my granddad helped organize the union in the county. And my dad was one of those early labor leaders thatUnknown Speaker 42:20 she met if your mother met him was through the No,Unknown Speaker 42:23 actually, they grew up here together because their roof rose my what I call my granddad was a coal miner with my granddaddy Harmon. And so they all of the kids just grew up here together. And after my eldest rose came back from the service, then he and my mom started dating and I think about 1947 48 got married. And they just always knew each other.Unknown Speaker 42:56 Yeah. When you said you were in Washington, DC, what? When did you move backUnknown Speaker 43:00 to Washington, and move back? 1976?Unknown Speaker 43:04 So you stayed up there for about four years? AUnknown Speaker 43:08 little over four years? Uh huh.Unknown Speaker 43:10 What made you come back? Homelessness inUnknown Speaker 43:14 Washington DC. That?Unknown Speaker 43:17 No, I was doing very well in Washington. I had never seen people without home,Unknown Speaker 43:25 sleep on grades. I saw the same thing. And I thought that'sUnknown Speaker 43:30 Yeah, and I just couldn't. For four years, I worked in the best part of Washington, DC, and a very cosmopolitan city that had incredible influence throughout the world. And but I came from a place that had 500 people that took care of everybody. I would just walk past these people and just ignore them, like everybody else in the city did. And then one day, I passed this a pregnant girl, Little black girl. She was about 15 it's pouring down rain. And she was 10 and a half months pregnant. I mean, she was just ready to have a baby just any second. And, and she was begun. And I just couldn't pass her. I had passed up hundreds of people and act like I didn't see him didn't hear him and didn't understand their misery. But her for some reason. I just couldn't pass it. And I started and I picked her up and took her up to my law firm and we got her set up with a mission project up there. And later I found out that she had her baby in and the baby it was a little boy and they were both fine. And she was from Ethiopia, and wasn't illegal at And in this country, and it was just a kind of story, but story, they got everything straightened out. And she and the baby got to stay here in the country, probably because you're probably probably, but some of the best free legal advice you could have. But after that time, I just couldn't. I just couldn't pass those people on the street anymore. There were too many. And there were too many of them. And it just, it just ate me up inside after I finally opened that door, that urban people keep closed. For self protection, one of the things I found out was that northerners are pretty good people,Unknown Speaker 45:40 people, they just build walls to protect them.Unknown Speaker 45:43 Yeah. And I didn't understand that before. And I had incredible friends that that are just, you know, they were from New Jersey, and New York, and Maine and all these places. And after you got past that kind of rough exterior, they were just people, they were good people and moderate people and bad people. And they were just like everybody else. But one of the things that they had had to be ordered was just this crust around them because they saw so many things. And so many needs that they just couldn't help with. And, and, and I did that for a while too. And then I just couldn't tolerate that anymore. And I think that was the one thing that made me realize that there wasn't that rural living wasn't as bad as a lot of people made it out to be that that urban living had its good points and its bad points. And that rural living had its good points and bad points. And what you had to decide in life was what you wanted, and then kind of picked the place that met those needs. And actually, the thing that was most important to me, was that I just could not stand to see people sleep on the street. And for us to walk past them and didn't and and and accept that.Unknown Speaker 47:20 It was okay. That it was okay. When you move back home in the water public service district, District, so what would your official title be with the Public Service District? Chairperson Jefferson public service district, public water service districtUnknown Speaker 47:40 for McDowell County IUnknown Speaker 47:41 have been down for the whole county. Okay, so your your you know why?Unknown Speaker 47:48 I'm that water WomanUnknown Speaker 47:54 Oh, to put that in a book, they call me. They call me up on the phone and they say are you that water woman? And I know I'm in trouble.Unknown Speaker 48:06 That's interesting. Okay, now, when did you become involved with that's like PBA with hengli Square they volunteer to do the water element. statue and as the woman's as Karen Tolman says, We do water.Unknown Speaker 48:22 Actually, I didn't get involved with water till 1988.Unknown Speaker 48:26 What did you do between 76 and 88? For 12 years?Unknown Speaker 48:30 Well, I worked for the Union for a while. And organizer or No, actually, I work for the UN WA. Benefits, Phil. Health and Retirement sense. And the work doing paperwork, doing paperwork, I was field service representative and actually worked in the healthcare field and approved people's health, health care cards and health benefits. And it was a wonderful learning experience that I helped to organize. Yep. But saw a lot of people in need. That was the biggest thing that we were able to help passionately. And then I went to work and helped organize a national health demonstration project and Maqbool county calm McDowell County Health Education program. And because this county has always been underserved with physicians and stuff, we developed a community education program to begin to teach people how to take better care of themselves. So they didn't need the health care system so much. And that'sUnknown Speaker 49:47 what they did people like, PamelaUnknown Speaker 49:49 That's right. She She is that and what's the I work for a health care facility now? I work with Pam and Demeter. I'm Ted River at Tiger Health Association in gearing. I direct the maternal and infant health program. I work with expectant mothers and young children, three and under.Unknown Speaker 50:12 Okay, so Demeter then is one of your field workers.Unknown Speaker 50:16 I am Demeter, supervisor,Unknown Speaker 50:18 your field workers, and then Pam works there as a provider. So, you and Cam are kind of like CO runners of the place. So,Unknown Speaker 50:29 we have an executive director, I amUnknown Speaker 50:33 Charles Johnson. So, Charles is actually like the boss had to say.Unknown Speaker 50:40 And then the next level is the medical director, maternal and infant health program director, the dental director and the Health Education Director at that second level, and Pam works under the medical directorUnknown Speaker 50:55 over there, the actual medicalUnknown Speaker 50:59 a guy by the name of Christopher Anderson. He's about he's a physician and internal medicine specialist or does he work there atUnknown Speaker 51:07 TED River? Okay, now, how far away is that?Unknown Speaker 51:12 It's about a half an hour's drive. We don't go in miles here weUnknown Speaker 51:18 said how far away I've been in and see. But now you live here, correct?Unknown Speaker 51:27 Yeah, leaving Korea.Unknown Speaker 51:34 Hey, I'm Lindsay Geary. Where's, where is this place?Unknown Speaker 51:38 There's two Kleenex. One is in Gary and one is in norfork. And that's both on the other side of the mail.Unknown Speaker 51:45 So it's just Pam live close to it. Yes, you're like far farther away. It takes me half hour. Okay. That's what I'm so you're kind of like, a ways away. But so you're also this this name is like a file with the McDowell County the water jet. Now, is that a paid position? Or unsalaried? position? Okay. I bet you're in terms of your page. Your your official position. He isUnknown Speaker 52:11 director of maternal and infant health program at River clinic.Unknown Speaker 52:17 But when I list you, as you're wondering,Unknown Speaker 52:21 Helen Carson is a member, a fellow board member at the Public Service District. Oh,Unknown Speaker 52:29 and I'm sorry for my colleagues. I'm pretty sure. It takes me about two days. By the time I figured out what we're doing and where we go home. Right, we got to come. Okay, now what do you what do you got started in in Ada waters?Unknown Speaker 52:52 Can I take one break and run through your bathroom? Yes, yes. We could have some years decided to get married. No, I didn't have time to get loans.Unknown Speaker 53:09 I just ran into a man made for me that it's I think Your marriage was made in heaven. I really did.Unknown Speaker 53:17 And how old is my husbandUnknown Speaker 53:19 is 20 years older than me. He's 64. And he's disabled. He worked in the coal mines for a while but he actually my husband actually lived in California for 25 years. He was a logger out there for a while. And then when his bat messed up. He was did warehousing work? He was the supervisor. Yes. But that's, that's what Carl did what he calls the many. That's what he did to raise his family. And he was married before. But what my my husband does is playing music.Unknown Speaker 54:13 Oh, really? He's a musicianUnknown Speaker 54:15 of the First Order. He truly is a wonderful master musician.Unknown Speaker 54:21 Does he write his own songs? Yes.Unknown Speaker 54:24 And writes his own songs and this person. Carl reads the recordings andUnknown Speaker 54:39 has he done recordingUnknown Speaker 54:41 at Yale? Apple shops got some of his music recorded. I think they came up here and recorded. Hey,Unknown Speaker 54:49 Jim, will you do you know that scoundrel. I know. The last time I saw Jim Webb Was that a fourth of July party over at Ellen Lewis's house in Virginia, and he got up and said something and walked off the stage and his feet flew straight. So we jumped leaping over there, and the party that was there, and everybody was there. And we had a great time. And then we went down and but I met him at Apple shop and he had me, I've written and said a couple of songs. Jump leap is great musician.Unknown Speaker 55:33 Okay, yeah. What's it play? Harmonica? Oh, wonderful. And but I was just saying, I'll have to leave this.Unknown Speaker 55:45 But I was just thinking, I guess weUnknown Speaker 55:47 could get Carl bring his Taylor guitar I was hearingUnknown Speaker 55:50 well, now I've got one that I'm trying to sell. It's called assignment for Blue Jays and make playing guitar. Oh, this is a pawn shop. To pay the phone bill I got paid at the end of the day. So we're not on top of that. We're not the rock of check taking it I get by with the money. Yeah. But so you married him. And then in 1988, I'm trying to get up to why we're interviewing you, you became the water woman, or started in your, on your trip to becoming a woman? How did thatUnknown Speaker 56:30 kept me here in credit, went bankrupt. And within three months of closing down in my little house and credit I had worms coming through my faucets, my water was black. As this ran two inches of water in your bathtub, pretend in it, your hand disappeared. We had coal wood, theses, because the lands deteriorated right beside the sewer lands. And then on top of all that, of course, their water respect period like contaminated. So and it smelled you couldn't. If you can dream of a problem we had with water you all we had. And for years, they'd been water problems in this community. And we'd gone before the or not this community but in the county. And because I did community work all over the whole county. I kind of end up at Public Service Commission hearings all over the place with people trying to get their water Public Service Commission had kind of more or less ignored the problem for 20 years. And finally, it was taken care of we're supposed to be we're supposed to be taking care of it. And it was owned by a private utility. The McDowell County Water Company. And the Public Service Commission really didn't know how to make a private utility,Unknown Speaker 58:07 a public utility, they whatUnknown Speaker 58:09 it was supposed to be doing. And finally, things just got so bad in this community of credit and Colwood that the people banded together and just made the agencies and the people responsible place that private utility in receivership and actually take it away from the owner.Unknown Speaker 58:33 So did the owner then loses investment?Unknown Speaker 58:36 Yes. And who wasn't? Thomas Blair, the third from Charleston, West Virginia. Was he a wealthy person? Yes. quite wealthy person, politicallyUnknown Speaker 58:46 powerful person? Yes. Was he an unhappy person when they took his water?Unknown Speaker 58:52 Yes, but he was even unhappier when they put his button jail. Oh.Unknown Speaker 59:01 We had a legal aid attorney here in the county that was from apple red. Norman was actually from Norman. Google was his name. He was actually from Florida, some light outside of Miami. And I don't know how Norman found this, but he was wonderful. And he worked with us and there was an old law on the books that talked about the corporate site, umbrella, the safety net that being a corporation gave a person and if you didn't do the board meetings and everything correctly, then then you became personally liable. It wasn't a corporation anymore. And Thomas Blair had not done all of those things. And there were seven women in Korea that took Thomas Blair to court on criminal charges for criminal neglect. And one then. And thenUnknown Speaker 1:00:02 he was personally liable.Unknown Speaker 1:00:04 Well, that personal suit is still ongoing.Unknown Speaker 1:00:08 How long did you stay in jail?Unknown Speaker 1:00:10 Well, actually, it was a misdemeanor. And I don't know if he was actually in jail at all when washed in Charleston, but he was on home confinement for 90 days. That was the most he could get out of it.Unknown Speaker 1:00:25 He was in big trouble in the Charleston newspaper,Unknown Speaker 1:00:29 and any other news other newspaper we could find. The national news.Unknown Speaker 1:00:35 I don't, I never saw it on the national news, but it deserved to be. And he ended up having to take the court case all the way to the West Virginia Supreme Court. And they finally just threw the case out on some technicality. But he had he had to pay a fan to make the accounting and had to do his home confinement anyway. But the biggest problem was that he lost what was about a $250,000 investment for him. But he also while he owned the water company, he would brag. Well, I haven't been to McDowell County in nine years, and I don't plan to ever go back to defend himself. Twice. He had to defend himself in court in both cases, both times so you lost your firm, physically, physically face to face with us. And you're like, No, no, he didn't like that. He would, he would never say anything to us. But there was always 10 or 12 of us that would sit there and smile at him off his court case, too. That's why you might not want to be in here, but you're here. And we worked with the day that they were doing the receivership here in McDowell County Circuit Court. That morning, Tom Blair went to federal court and Bluefield and put the company in bankruptcy. So incredible, we chose to do three things. When we decided to fight the water problem, we chose to do the criminal case we were talking about, we chose to do a civil case, which 103 people in the county, in this community incred are involved with. And we also chose to do an administrative thing. And that was to form get the county commission to form a public service district. And the cause I worked across the mountain and because my family for generations has been politically involved in this county, I was the person that was chosen to approach the county commission to do the public serviceUnknown Speaker 1:02:43 district. How were they How did they feel towards you guys? After you brought this big person in and embarrassment and Creative Commons? What were they were they supportive?Unknown Speaker 1:02:55 The county commissionUnknown Speaker 1:02:57 or or glad to see you get going or or manage your?Unknown Speaker 1:03:03 Well, in the five years that we've been working on this water project, the county commission has changed twice. The first time we approached the president of the county commission didn't want anything to do with forming a public service district. And in fact, one turned it over to another private utility down around Yeager. And we said no, we wouldn't allow that to happen because we needed some grants and stuff. We knew we will need a lot of money to fix our water problems here and here in this community. And the communities low income we knew we didn't have the money. So we needed to be able to receive grants and that's why we wanted the PSD formed. And what's the official name? The McDowell County Public Service District? Chairperson, I'm the chairperson. And we began politicking that how we should know in McDowell County, we had to politic it and Mac now counting first district created only county Commission's can form Public Service Districts.Unknown Speaker 1:04:16 They do it willingly orUnknown Speaker 1:04:19 not. The president of the county commission did it unwillingly. There was a number of that county commission by the name of Bobby Lewis, who is a fairly progressive political leader and comes from a fairly wealthy family. But he and their family has made their money in McDowell County.Unknown Speaker 1:04:49 Done here, this huge thing right up here is that what it is that you have created? Has he taken your picture? Let me take it up here. Now we Take it out here before it gets dark. Okay, so that would be a great thing JPUnknown Speaker 1:05:17 Yes, he agrees with me. Like standing in commission, they weren't happy. And did some of them lose their positions over this fight orUnknown Speaker 1:05:32 actually one people was attacking a second memberUnknown Speaker 1:05:36 company on the Commission's right. For the whole county. Yes, we have 17 and CrossFit less, we have three, instead of having to deal with three Fuddy duddies, you got to deal with.Unknown Speaker 1:05:48 One was a game that one was in the middle and one was four. Oh, okay. Okay. And through some pretty stiff politic and and with the courts involved, the court can order the Mac now county commission become receiver whether it wanted to or not. The court did do the court, both like Circuit Court and the federal bankruptcy court ordered the county commission to become receipt. They ordered to do that. And February of 1990, they were ordered to do but by that time, Bobby Lewis and Jerry horn had out voted the one who didn't want to doUnknown Speaker 1:06:39 so whether they wanted to do it or not. The court made to do it and then they'd already voluntarily.Unknown Speaker 1:06:46 the prosecuting attorney for the camera that was involved with this was a guy by the name of Kendrick King. That's Debbie kingsUnknown Speaker 1:06:56 has a he's the one that ran for the circuit.Unknown Speaker 1:06:59 Judge, she was on this issue. This issue was part of what got Kendrick GlenUnknown Speaker 1:07:06 did the circuit judge order the county to do it anyUnknown Speaker 1:07:10 of the other was a different judge. ItUnknown Speaker 1:07:11 was Booker T statements. Okay, but why did why were people supporting him when Stevens and then what they want.Unknown Speaker 1:07:20 There are two judges in this county now. Kendrick Kang and Booker T statement. Oh, certainlyUnknown Speaker 1:07:24 judges. Oh, okay. So it wasn't running against each other thatUnknown Speaker 1:07:29 Hillary was running against another circuit judge Rudolph Kaminski,Unknown Speaker 1:07:36 who was from somewhere else he was from across the mountain. Okay, so everybody on this side of Mount got together and voted forUnknown Speaker 1:07:43 Kendrick de jedge. Because Kendrick had worked with us and helping to solve some of their problems. This was the district determined prosecutor CST prosecuting attorney. Kendricks 46. Now he's a couple years older than me, and we grew up together.Unknown Speaker 1:08:04 Okay, then then in 1990, you got formed. And what happened after that?Unknown Speaker 1:08:09 We proceeded to develop a long range strategic plan for replacing all the water systems in the 15 community. So well, we're starting with 15 communitiesUnknown Speaker 1:08:25 so well, but this this thing that you through this guy, Jim, what was the name of theUnknown Speaker 1:08:29 district in that county water pit,Unknown Speaker 1:08:32 the Mandel County Water Company, it was serving the whole county,Unknown Speaker 1:08:35 it was serving 15 communities and lead to poor very badly. And we took over those 15 communities plus as phase one of the McDowell County Public Service District, plus the rest of the unincorporatedUnknown Speaker 1:08:50 areas within the county, everything pretty much except Bluefield andUnknown Speaker 1:08:55 battle it will be everything except nanawall WhaleWatch, war day the Jaeger branch in Campbell,Unknown Speaker 1:09:04 so you all took over everything. Nobody else really won. In terms of why for the most part, because it was hard to get to and expensive to service and all those that you took over things, there was no moneyUnknown Speaker 1:09:16 and no money did the veil. But now we took it over into faces. We took over the 15 communities that the water was terrible that Thomas Blair had never served well. And then the second phase was to move into our those other communities. And we have next week in fact, we will have our third new water system. come online. Which one was the first one? It was a small community two miles down the road powered by Canon. Say that well, we'll have to come on at the same time, coal, wood and Korea. We will have brand new water systems online. You In the next couple of weeks,Unknown Speaker 1:10:01 where are the Where's the water coming from? I mean, did you create a whole new system or just revitalized,Unknown Speaker 1:10:06 we've rebuilt each system and each community from the ground up. And for coding credit, we develop those to the funding sources in the same package. And we got three and a half million dollars.Unknown Speaker 1:10:21 Okay. And now how many more we got to do? And how much is it going to cost?Unknown Speaker 1:10:25 We've got in phase one, we've got 11 more communities today. And it roughly cost between 11 and $14 million dollars.Unknown Speaker 1:10:35 Okay. And when you get down with phase one, you'll be going to phase two, which will be the rest of the county, and how much is it going to cause?Unknown Speaker 1:10:45 Altogether, it will probably cost somewhere between 33 and $50 millionUnknown Speaker 1:10:52 to do the whole camp to end your floating bonds to do that, yes, I know what your interests are.Unknown Speaker 1:10:59 Farmers House Administration is our major loanUnknown Speaker 1:11:05 person.Unknown Speaker 1:11:08 And we qualify for a 5% interest long, so allUnknown Speaker 1:11:13 you gotta do is borrow the money, and figure out the water rates, including the 5% interest, and pay that back and 40 years back, and 40 years. And so that's pretty much what you guys,Unknown Speaker 1:11:28 actually for the three water systems that we have replaced. So far, only about 25% of that money has been lost. The rest of it has been grants, which we won't ever have to pay back.Unknown Speaker 1:11:42 So hopefully, you'll get through the whole project with maybe say, a 50% loan and a 50%. GrantUnknown Speaker 1:11:47 it I doubt if the allowance will go up to even 50% We may end up having to bury about a third of the money, but covers up to $15 million, that we need to finish phase one.Unknown Speaker 1:12:03 So that the total things that it costs, what 60 million,Unknown Speaker 1:12:07 it could, it could cost up to 50 million, I don't think it will.Unknown Speaker 1:12:12 You'll have to borrow hopefully no more than that 50 million of that.Unknown Speaker 1:12:16 Well, a second thing that is PSD and lots of other effects in the counting of orca now is with the salt Soil Conservation Service. And they currently have a fair amount of money to do a water study that will do three things in the county, provide safe drinking water, reduce flooding, and provide recreational opportunities in this county fishing, boating and all that stuff. And a major portion of that $50 million can come through the Soil Conservation Service, and all that'll be grant that won't have to be paid back.Unknown Speaker 1:13:02 So to a degree, one of the reasons that I think I'm starting to get things put together in my mind now the coal companies were doing everything. Then we went through a period of dependency on the on the government just for welfare, because when the coal companies left, the county government never really stepped in and took over the services that weren't being provided. That's right.Unknown Speaker 1:13:34 Okay, so how many, how many? There's a phase one and phase two. And when when when you're just being done.Unknown Speaker 1:13:51 When we first did our long range plan, we said 10 years, that Farmers Home Administration has been meeting with us the last three or four months. And Farmers Home wants to complete phase one within the next two and a half years.Unknown Speaker 1:14:07 So and then Phase two will be completed. Maybe like five years.Unknown Speaker 1:14:11 I'm not sure we're having another soil conservation meeting next week. And they will be talking timeframes, but it's possible that five to seven years, we could have decent water throughout this whole county. The person we just gotten a new Farmers Home Administration, state director. And his name is Bobby Lewis. And he was the county commissioner for Mac county that helped us build our first three water plants as a county commissioner.Unknown Speaker 1:14:45 So it's certainly not going to hurt that he's in thatUnknown Speaker 1:14:47 position. It's not going to hurt their problems and your request. That's right. Well, but he was the one that initiated our meeting about Three months ago, to sit down and look at our long range strategic plan, and to see if there were ways to put funding packages together to accomplish that in less than 10 years. And farmers home was only one of our funders. In creating COVID We have four. And farmers home is the major farmers, farmers home gave us a grant and alarm. The US economic development administration gave us a grant and small cities block grant through the governor's office gave us a grant. So three of the four are grants that we will never have to pay back. Well. So I was thinking of the two, one grant from farmers loan from Congress.Unknown Speaker 1:15:58 If you had to sum it all up, everything that's happened. But one big statement, one, you know, this is your chance to tell the world. What do you want to say? Good, bad, indifferent?Unknown Speaker 1:16:12 Huh. It's given people who have previously had no power, the opportunity to bring about a difference and do something good for their community. And it's not been an easy process. And we've all learned a lot, that finally with the, with the coal, mining, domination of this county, being down, there's an opportunity for those of us who truly love this place to do something and make it better. And that's kind of why I'm involved with what I'm doing. But the waters not how I did. I'm the president of the Big Creek people in action. I'm the president of our local domestic violence program, Chairperson of the PSD. And I'm also a member of the McDowell County citizens Conservation Corps board. And that's a youth training program. And my whole reason for doing those things is to my have an eight year old daughter, that in 10 years from now, she'll be graduating from Bear Creek High School, and she doesn't have the opportunity to stay home now. Because there's nothing for her here. And what I want to do is to work so that all of our children will have the opportunity to live and do well in Mac county if they choose to stay home. Children Now do not have the choice of staying in McDowell County, like Demeter son, Jarrell, he can't stay here he has to leave are the kids that graduate from high school today? They have no choice. They either have to leave or they have to stay here and be very poor and live on welfare. And I want our county to have other choices. And so just through the years I've just become involved in lots been labeled the progressive movement in McDowell County, and actually have become one of its major leaders. Not that I planned it that way. Well, somebody stepped out there and did something. And this is still a place where somebody's gonna stand up. And this is still one of those places where if you stand up and do something you become a leader whether you won't do we're not the only one out there doing it. That's right.Transcribed by https://otter.ai
