-n -n -n >> For the Women of Co-Fronch, Kentucky Historical Society, November the 13th, about 1 PM. >> What community are we closest to? What community is it? >> It's just the Harlan camp. >> Yeah, but I'm in the name of the community, the little- >> No, look, I'm late June. >> Okay, late June? >> Late June. >> Late June. >> Okay, now what I'm gonna do is just hand this one to you, and you can just sit there and hold it, and that way I don't sit here. [BLANK_AUDIO] >> Just hold on a second. >> Yeah. >> Yeah, that's just what it, you know, getting up early. >> Yeah. >> Some of the questions, I needed to ask you some, just some biographical questions before we do anything else before I get into the interview. >> Yeah. >> Where were you born? >> Born, I've heard of Ladders Creek. >> Where? >> Ladders Creek. >> In Harlan County? >> Harlan County. >> If you don't mind, what year were you born? >> I was born 1934. >> 1934. >> Could you give me your mother, your father's full name, and your mother's late name? >> My mother's name was Cora, your name? >> Maiden. >> That's where she's married, Bush. >> Four Bush. >> Cora Bush. >> And your father's full name? >> James Anthony Clark. >> James Anthony Clark? >> Yeah. >> And how many brothers and sisters did you have? >> I had six sisters and four brothers. >> Could you give me, can you remember all their names? >> Oh yeah, but now I can tell you their birthdays. >> Just who they are. They're the brothers first, I guess. >> Do you want them before they married or? >> Yeah, just their names before they married. Willie Clark, Ray Clark, Ralph Clark, and Dillard Clark. And my sister's names Rosa Leith Clark and Dovey Clark, and Ruby Clark, and Geneval Clark, Helen Clark, and Grace Leclawick. >> Okay, if you could, could you tell us where your mother and father moved in here from? >> They was born and raised here. >> They were born and raised here? >> Born and raised here, right here in Kentucky. >> So then it would have been your grandparents that would have been the first ones to where were they from? >> Well, I can remember back as far back as I can remember, they was from here. They never went nowhere. >> How long have you been here? >> I always been here. >> What was your grandfather's name? >> My, on my daddy's side of me, Daniel Clark. >> Okay, so, and they'd always been here? >> Yeah. >> Okay, well, since you're a family, and has been here more or less forever, you know, since it was settled. >> That's your, before the, when the Indians were here, my grandmother was full Indian. >> Oh, your great, your-- >> My grandmother. >> Your grandmother on which side of the family? >> Yes. >> Okay, so your grandmother, Clark, was full-blooded Indian? >> Well, I guess she was. >> What was her name? >> Nancy. >> Nancy? >> Yeah, but now who she was before she married out with? >> And so then you all have some Native American blood, and I do too, I'm part of it. You were born in the heart of the Depression. >> Yeah. >> What were your earliest memories when you were three or four or five years old? What's the first thing you remember about that time? >> Well, I can remember that the emigration and everything, and you had to get stamps before, and wait a month before you could buy sugar and salt, not salt but coffee and lard and bacon and-- >> During the war? >> No, this was for-- well, I guess the war was going on then, but you know, everything was aeration, about it. Gasoline, I can remember in two oppressions whenever the stuff was rationed. >> Oh, during the-- during the-- during the war, during the Depression? >> Yeah. >> What did your dad do for a living? >> Well, my dad, he worked in the coal mines. It's all he done in his whole life is worked in coal mines. Well, he tempered some, you know, in his own strike, but he got killed in the coal mines. >> What year was that, you remember? >> That's 1948. >> And what happened was it a-- >> Rock pile. >> Was it a lot of them or him and-- >> No, just he was the only one that got killed. He had to shoot his own coal, you know, take dynamite in there, and he put off his shot, him and his buddy worked together. And so whenever they worked together like that, he'd go put off a shot, and then they'd go back and dig the coal down, you know, with a pig and shovel. They had shoveled it behind and a little big car-- big cars with it. And he'd put his shot off. They went and cleaned that mess up. So it was the other guy's time to go back and make his shots, you know. And whenever he would-- my dad told him, "No, go ahead and eat his supper," and then he'd go ahead and put off the shot, and he'd come back and eat. So my dad went back in there. He heard the rock falling, and he started to run, and it caught him down against the rails, you know, where the motor went in to pull the coal, and the rock was the big-- it fell on him. And he'd put a part of the rock off of him. Just to get it off of him. Yeah. And what mine was that, do you remember? Yeah, it was Calvin mines over in Virginia. Yeah, I could take you out to the day and show you where it's at. Um, and what did your--what did your mother do? Did she-- My mother was always a housewife. She never did do anything else, but just-- I have kids and raisems all I can take. If you had ten brothers and sisters and she was busy doing that, did you--what do you remember about growing up other than the rationing? About going to school? How far did you go in school? I got up to the third grade. We'd go to school one day and have to lay out the next day and help my mother. To end to the kids or take clothes to the river bank and wash them on the washboard. Or go to the fields and work and raise what we eat during the summer. Um, let's see. Did you go to the--did you go to the company school? Were they the ones that had the-- No, we just went to--the little school was around in the neighborhood. Did you live in the--was it a--was it a coal camp where you lived or-- No, it was back in the mountains just like you sure back in the holler. I said, "There's more toenails." I was telling you, I said, "There's more toenails stumped off in the holler up and down through the--up in the Ladder Street." And they was in the river where we'd have to go out to, you know, go by our footy. We got one pair of shoes a year. And them shoes still were up. We had to do that till the next year. So we'd go to school by our footy or anywhere else we went until it got so cold we couldn't. And what was it--how did--how did the--how did people treat each other back then? Did they help each other out? Oh, they'd help each other. They'd come. We'd have big-appelance, being stringent, bunch of gathering like today. And go to one field, hold it out and get all of one neighbor's fields hold out. And then they'd go--we'd all gather in and go to the next neighbor's. We'd done that till we got them all hold out. And that's the way we do when we go to pick beans and gather the corn and have big-appelance. Big-appel butter stir-offs. Was church a big--did you have church there in the community or did you have to go off to church? No, they'd come to your house and have church. Maybe like this week they'd come to our house and have church and stay all day and eat dinner and suffer at our house. And then the next Sunday, you know, they'd take a time of about--week of about till then they'd start all over back in the neighborhoods. They had church houses, but they'd rather go to other people's houses and have-- Sounds like a good way to have church. Yeah. Do you have a good preacher? No, just the preachers are around in the neighborhoods, you know. They preached, well, we did have some come out of Virginia over to preach, you know, their families. Over out of Calvin places around, you know, where my dad worked. There's a big camp over in there and a bunch of gather up. What religion was it most? Baptist. Baptist? Yeah. Well, that was when you were growing up and then when did you--when was the--when did you leave home? I left home. Let's see, my dad got killed in '44. I married. Did you get killed in '48 or--? I'm in '48. Okay. I left home in '50. Then when you were 16 and you got married? Yeah, I got married and I moved out the same day I got married. What was your husband's name? Bill Jack Baldwin. And you were 16 when you got married? Yeah. How old was he? I see he was born 1934. I mean, 24. And I was born in '34. So he is 26? Yeah, he is 26-year-old. And how many children did you all--? I've got five. And their names are? Corinelli Baldwin and Nellie Jean Baldwin and Barbara Ann Baldwin and Bill Baldwin and Murray Helen Baldwin. When you all first started, did you set up a keeping house or was--what kind of work did your husband do or did you do? Well, yeah, we started keeping house. We moved out the same day that we got married. We married, went and got married down there. Okay, I'm Smith and Harlan married us. I come back up and got my furniture and moved it on the house. We had a house or anything. It cleaned out before we got married. And so we just went on the housekeeping. And my husband, he worked in a cutting timber in the law woods and made us a living. And then I'd get out and I'd work for people in their gardens and in their house. Did you work for money or for trade? I worked for money. You know, sometimes people work out. Mm-hmm. Well, tell me some of your stories about--but he always worked in the timber. He never--your husband, did he work in the mines? No, he helped me a--Jerick went by the name of Glenbrook when he was working up there. He helped me a little bit of that, you know, construction. And they promised him a job around the temple or in the mines until they got it all done. And then after the guy had all done, he got laid out. There's a bunch of them got laid out and they wouldn't hire him after he done all the work. You know, poor and same-y-y and cutting all of them ditches to build all of them temples and all them big things he run and built, some and all of that. Did they use the--did they use the timber he cut in the lads or shoring up the lads or--what happened to the timber that he cut? Well, he cut them the timber that I saw on the sawmill to make lumber out of it. You know, like you build houses and-- Well, while you all were--when you first got married, when you started keeping house, have you got any good stories to tell about things that happened when you first got married or why you were raising the kids? Were the kids going to school at that time at the same place you went to school or somewhere else? No, they had to go somewhere else. They wasn't in school or where I went. My kids went to Breedon's Creek. They started in their--well, it's the first year of school. They called it the "Premier" when we started. Now they've got the head start and all of that junk. Back then it just, you know, started out as the "Premier." Then you go from the "Premier" to the first. And so mine started out of Breedon's Creek. You know, the school else I went to, they tore all of them down. How far did your kids go to school? I got one graduate. My son, he graduated. From high school? Yeah. Well, tell me some good stuff. Now we're to the part of the interview that's the best part, actually. Just any stories, any things that you can remember--sad things, happy things. We were talking to the last lady that we interviewed and we were--I asked her what her hopes were. What her dreams were, you know, when you were growing up. Did you have some big hope or dream that you were wanting or was it just a day-to-day thing? Well, mine was just a day-to-day thing because my mother, she got up at three o'clock during the morning. And us kids, we didn't get to lay in the bed. We had to get up and help clean the house up. And nowhere near to go to the cornfield, the time it got daylight. They get daylight enough to see where the perleries go to work. And once it wasn't big enough to work with a hoe, went in front and pulled the weeds. And the ones that weren't big enough to use a hoe when there's a plank, they'd have to go along a dropping. And I know one time that they had me a dropping thing. I'd drop beans till I was so tired I couldn't look at it and wouldn't go home. My dad would give me a bucket of beans, come to a big old rock pile. And I thought I'd get rid of them beans out of it now since no one would know that they'd come up around that rock. Every time I'd pass that rock pile, I'd throw me a handful of beans in there. So we raised more beans off that rock pile and we raised out the whole patch of them. Did they grow good in the rocks? Oh yeah. See, there's fresh dirt where my dad had grubbed and throwed the brush and stuff up there. And he'd set that up there and burn it. Oh yeah, it was rich. Rich dirt was in there after he burned all of that. When you were young and you thought about getting married, did you have, I guess most young girls, they've got some vision of... Well, that's all I wanted. I just wanted to get me a home because after my dad died, my mom, she always was hard to get along with. And she was right on up till she passed away. And I was always wanting me a home, a mom. So I was currently thrilled, you know, about getting married and getting the move day up and starting a family of my own. How'd your mom feel about that? Oh, my mom. I had to go twice. Went down there once and we got married and she wouldn't go with us. She said I could go and then after I went, she pitched that she fit. So I just stayed there at home with her a little longer. I said, "Well, I just stay here with you." She said she's going down and have the marriage on nulls and I told her she wouldn't have to do that. I didn't want to aggravate my mother because, you know, I done lost my dad and I took a lot off of her. So I waited and then we went back so she could go with us and sign the paper, you know, to make it legal. And, well, it would have been legal anyhow if I'd, you know, just wanted to overrule her and do it, but I didn't. And we waited then about six months and she'd agreed to go back down there then and sign the paper until I could get married. And I was well pleased whenever she did that. So that was when you moved out? Yeah. Yeah, he went back then. He was living with his sister and my brother. My brother had married my husband's sister and so he was living with him because he had no home or nothing. His mother remarried and moved out and left him with nothing. So I had nothing. But my mother growled all the time. So you all started out with nothing? Yeah, we started out with nothing, that's right. But we lived happy. We made our marriage last. And how long did he live? I always say we got married 1950 and he died. He's been dead be eight years. He died in '86. He'll be dead eight years, the 23rd of January. Tell me some more stories like the one in the garden you got any of them after you got out and raised with the kids? What was it like having kids back here? Did you have a doctor or did you go to the hospital? No, I didn't go to the hospital. I got a doctor with my first one at home. Them with my second one. There was a doctor came and he liked to kill me and the baby both. He was supposed to have been a doctor and he wasn't a doctor because he had killed, I don't know how many people's babies. We didn't know it when he was delivering them. And so I had to go to hospital and stay for about two weeks. And no one here to save my life and my baby's life too. And so whenever I got out of the hospital and I went in labor, I wouldn't let him get no doctor. So after the baby was born, they had to go get a midwife. So you lost faith in the doctor? Yeah. What was he doing wrong? He wasn't no doctor. He didn't know what he was doing. He just said he was a last and doctor and he wasn't. He just said back then when my kids was born, back 40 years ago, that anybody come along a period, clover, splint camp and say they were a doctor, they had hired him. And that's what he did. And so I didn't trust him no more. I still don't trust him much. I do my own doctor no off. [inaudible] Well, we didn't move too often, but there's one time that we moved next to the highway. You know back whenever it's growing up, it's just no way to know. There wasn't no situation. It's a highway. You do good business to have a little walkway, you know, just a little path for us. So we decided we'd moved. I'd lived up there in that one house for years. And I had three kids and all three were currently small. And I was standing there one day, I was washing. I heard the alphas raking it was. I looked and we lived a holler right out, you know, at the end of the house. I looked and they was water running in my doors. They was coming in into windows. And I opened the door to let the water going out the door. And the car, the water had backed up so bad, you know, cars was apart. People sticking their head out and had a rain so hard, you couldn't see your hand before you. They saw and get them kids and run. I said, I'm not about to get my kids out here to get them stranded. I said, I'm staying right where I'm at. They said, you're going to get washed out. I looked down the way. I said, when the house starts, I'll start. But I said, I'm staying right here. So I did. I stayed right there and I didn't go nowhere. But the water, you know, it's so lucky that he just went on through the doors and out. But boy, you talked about a mess to clean up. I had it. And that was apart. Homes is me off. Yeah. No, just a. I don't know where they'd come with the cloud back then. You know, people. Yeah, I said the cloud burst. I told them, I believe everything back in the harvest to come out. But I'd reckoned, you know, it got gathered up back in there where it rained so much. No logs and trees and stuff had it. Backed up in there and it all got turned loose whenever it come down. It's hard. Whatever happened? Did you ever have any fire? Oh, yeah. Whenever I was little, my dad had a fire. And that was one time that my mother, she really got mad. We had everything we had burn it. Oh, but one Rockenture, he got the iron time save one Rockenture. Mummy sat in that Rockenture and rocked the young sweet. He said, hell, if he had a barrel of it back, but that one sure he just so we didn't let burn up to. And he's really. So he back no fire. Mommy got the red she liked died over it. That told her, said about to buy one. Buy it all. Buy it all. So that's what he done. That sounds just like a pain. You got to say get it, but I was good. My wife, the first time we moved after we got married, she had this antique Rockenture. And my dad was helping me get it through the door. He got it on the crossway. He said, just ram it through there. It'll go just ramming through. She never would let us touch a thing. Oh, now my husband through moving. No, he wouldn't touch a thing. Now, the big stuff, he'd always get somebody, you know, to come in to help. He'd say, no. If anything gets broken, I ain't gonna be the blame. You know, you kind of, since he didn't work in the manager, kind of been on the outside. Look at him. Yeah. How do you see the how do you see the whole industry? Has it been good for people, bad for people? Has it changed a lot over the years? It's changed. What was it and what is it? What changes have occurred? Well, back when my dad went and worked in the coal mines, and he had to load it behind, he'd load a big car, and he got it as one time. Back now, they've got all kinds of that machinery, and got all kinds of equipment to do it with. And you go buy a load of coal, and a ton of coal, and I could roll it in a wheelbar myself, and five or six wheelbar fools, and they call that a ton, and they charge you way too much for it. And he's loaded a whole railroad car for it? Yeah, for one ton. And that's what he got paid for, is one ton. Back then, he could work all day, and he'd never as much as, well, he might make $13 all day, and now they get $13, $14 there, and a lot of places get some more than that. And then, I'm setting back, I'm watching the machinery do the work, and back then, men had to do it behind. Taking no longer, I've got no longer out there, like the Eustahlger Co, you know, put off the shops, and I've got to pick it to pick out coal with. So you see, the biggest change is, is the fact that it's gone from being a lot of hand labor, to being more mechanical. What do you see in the, in the, how do you think, as the coal industry, has it been good for Easter, Kentucky, or bad, or do you think that the wealth has been shared enough, or, how could it have been done differently than it was that you would have ordered? See what I'm saying, if you could go back and do it all yourself, how would you have it done differently? Well, some way I'd have it done differently, I would think in the coal mines, if I hired anybody to work in the coal mines, I'd pay them all the same price, I wouldn't pay one part so much, I earned them, drop away down, and pay another and a lot less, I'd pay them all the same, because they're all riskin' their life in underground. I don't think it's right. Now the one that runs that machinery, they get a lot more than the ones it does, it's a shovel in that belt, and a shovel in the belt. And the money would be harder than the settin' our runnin' a machinery, for because you've got the shovel in your hand all day. How do you, what do you see happenin' in the coal fields in the future, do you see it, coal gonna be big again, or do you see it? No, it's gettin' smaller, for because I'll tell you why. They've already just about destroyed the mountains, and they've about destroyed all the lands, that's what's causin' all the floods. And the big warships, now back in March, we had big warships where they went and took 'em back here in this holler. They mined all the mines out, and they didn't stop their mine openin' up right, and it turned all that water loose on us, and it just about washed everything out down through here, and washed that yellow truck down there, over 200 feet down the road there. Nobody got brown, though? No, they wasn't even, it just so lucky we all here did come and stayed in, which it wouldn't have bothered me anyway, not without it got turned cut in, you know, back in the house there. When, when, when did this happen? Back in March, this past March. Well, I was here just me and my grandson, and I had my grandbaby up here, and my daughter, she just had got here, and I was sittin' in her gettin' supper, and I was sittin' in her peelin' some potatoes, because that grandbaby of mine, he thinks he has to have a potato every time he eats. He's not hardly three-year-old yet, and so I was gettin' supper, waitin' on my son to come in from work, and we here to be grackin', we jump and run to the door, and it even jarred this house, and about it before we got out of town, make two phone calls to people to get out, and one of them didn't make it to get out 'til it already dripped down on now the holler. You talk about logs, snakes, it even wore snakes out down there, 'cause they had 'em down on playin' with 'em, diggin' 'em out that much. There's one guy, seated, and he thought it was a little water snake, and he dug it out, and it was a rattlesnake, he'd worse down. - Oh, was he still alive? - Yeah, he's still alive, and they's down on playin' with him. He's right down above the house. - Oh. Well, what do you think? - Uh, I guess if you had to sum up, uh, has it been a, lookin' back, takin' everything into consideration, has it been a good life, hard life, bad life? How would you classify it? - Well, it's been a hard life, but it has been a pleasant life. I've been happy. Like I said, I was a lot happier when my husband was 11, than I've ever been since he's been gone. I know I had to wait on him and take care of him, just like a baby, but, well, he is able, you know, to get up and wash and go to table and eat and stuff like that, but still, yet, I had to help him bathe and, you know, get up and down through the night. - What happened to him now? - Well, he had a heart attack, but they were something, they said it was at dust. It settled on his lungs, and he'd take spells of hemorrhaging at his lungs, and the doctor said if he got hot or leapt at anything, that he'd hemorrhage death before we gave him the doctor. So we got down and he got smotherin' a lot, and then he had a bad heart. And I was out of the bed really, more than I was in the bed. I've been sittin' here night after night by my sayah. See, I'd let my son, he worked, and my daughter, she went to school, and I'd let her go on to bed. So I was really just, might as well say, right here by my sayah, 'cause she was real hard-hearing, and she couldn't hear what went on without I went and I woke her up, regardless of what. But my husband, he'd been dead, I found him in the bed dead, and he'd been dead in the bed to me for over an hour before I noted. See, he told me he was real sleepy and he wanted to go to sleep. And my son came in from work at night, and it was a quarter to twelve, and how come he'd know what time it was, 'cause he'd always asked when it, you know, as soon as his eyes had opened, what time he got home. Sometimes he'd be at home, sometimes he wouldn't when he'd ask me. Well, that learnt me to look at the clock, 'cause I wouldn't lie to him. That's one thing I won't do, is lie to nobody. And I got up, he'd come in a quarter to twelve, knocked on the door, and I told him, I said, "Honey, don't wake your daddy up." I said, "He ain't been asleep long." And I used to out of the bed and come through there, come through here, and they'd bring me to turn the light on or nothing on, and open the door, and I looked at the clock, and just 'cause I'd flipped the light on. And I stand there talking to him, and I went back to bed, and his hand must have dropped out of the four sides of the bed. And I walked over and picked his hand up and laid back on the bed, 'cause he complained, "You know what, it's getting numb." And as I went to lay his hand down, there's a thought run through my mind. Well, now he didn't move, and any other time you touch him, he'd sleep, he'd bathe your pat in the floor. And I screamed out at my son, and he'd come and overize that. And I was abiding him to help me do something for him, but he wouldn't tell me he was scorned either. We'd come here and call the ambulance, and after I found out he was scorned, I never did know when he picked him up. And there wasn't a soul here with him when he died but me and my baby daughter. And if he hadn't been for his hand to come out over that bed, I went right back and earned a carol baton bed with him and laid with him till five o'clock next morning, 'cause I always got up between four thirty and five o'clock. I'd get up and cook breakfast, and then I'd get my daughter up and let her eat, and then I'd always get up and eat his breakfast with us, and then he'd go back to bed. What, you say that he had the dust on his lungs? If he didn't work in the mines, was that just from being around here? Yeah. See, we lived around where there's cold dust and rock dust all of our life. So you didn't necessarily just have to be in the coal mines to get to that line? No. So they more or less said that's what he had? Yeah, we got Miller down there at Clover Pork Clinic, tried to get him to go sign up on his black lung, and he told him. He's like I am, he's honest, and he wouldn't do it. Wanted him to go sign up on his black lung, and he looked right at him, he said, "I never worked in the mines," and he said, "I wouldn't lie for what they got." He said, "I'll make it." I know I worked around and raised my two last kids. Like I said, they had a father, you know, who was alive, but he wasn't able to help support them, but now I got out and I worked and made a living and raised my children, them two lastings. And if he was alive, he'd tell you, "I did." And that was when you were, you said when you were working, what kind of work were you doing then? Well, I peeled tomatoes. We left here a little while and stayed in Indiana, but I always come back. I was back in here every month, sometimes twice a month, and then I worked to earn a factory. But now I worked for people around here, I hold corn, plenty of potatoes, plenty of corn, house clean, washed, mop, washed down walls, sealants, moved all the furniture out and everything. And in the ordinary, I'd make a living to raise my kids, stood and learned. I put out a big garden and my baby son was born. I liked three pieces. I had them on when I went into labor. You know I stood right there and learned them before I'd let any of them know it. To get it when you're to get done, because I told that lady. You got done. No, and I told that lady, I said, "Now, I'll have you clothes ready for you in the morning." I said, "You come by and pick them up." So I didn't name the lie to her. If I tell you that I'll do something without hits through sickness or through death or something like that, I will do what I'll tell you I'll do, or I'll die trying it. Perhaps one thing I don't believe in in this line. You know I've got some young ones I sure do it to. I climbed their dog hide over it. Was there anything you'd like to close out with? You know this is your chance to tell the world whatever you want to tell them. Is there anything that you'd like to? Well, one thing that I'd like to say, that I would like to let the people know, that I took my grandson in and give him a home when his mother wouldn't, that and in there. And I've not had a minute's trouble with that child. Now last year, the year before last, that kid didn't go to school two months out of the whole year. He didn't go another time before that Harley. Last year I kept him in school and I got up and I showed him that I cared and I loved him. You know and tried to do for him. And he stayed in school and he's making good grades and he stays out of trouble. He ain't been a minute's trouble. And his good kid is straightened up and everybody loves him. And back used to why there wasn't nobody, you know, paying attention to him. And so why leave him or going down and graduating and go to college and make, you know, a good leave him. So if you had a hope rather than any for you, you'd have a dream or hope that he would go on and graduate from college and... And make something out of his head. Make something out of his head. Like I said, I've lived my days and I've lived rough days and I've had bad days and I've had good ones. But I know he's young and he's got a future ahead of his and mine's done just about over. I might live several years but still yet you know over you get the less you can do towards working. So what do you see? How do you feel about that? How do you feel about closing things out? Is it scary or? No. Don't scare me of it. I know God put a shirt. I'll have a shirt to take us one day and he gets ready for me. He's ready. And that's one thing. None of us can shine his day at this and upon all of us. So there ain't no need of trying to run from it. Or worry about it. No, if you worried about it, you would die. I don't think nothing about it. Now when I get sick I don't think about dying. I just think about getting better and going on doing what I can do. And I never give up whenever I get sick either. I don't go to bed. I still go ahead and do my work. I know the kids want to come here and do my work. I said, oh no. I said, you ain't going to start waiting on me? I said, I'll wait on my own. What's the dog's name? We can interview you without the dog. Boo Boo. Boo Boo. Oh look at that. Hey Boo Boo. You're a little Boo Boo right here. He's your buddy isn't he? Oh yeah. He's not moved all the time. He's not moved. How old is he? 11 year old. I've got no cat that's 9 and a half years old. He's worthless. Well now I tell you what. That little old thing, nobody. Now we stay here a lot by our sale. Just me and her. But I'm not a bit afraid. I wouldn't be afraid to go to bed and leave there. Oh yeah. He's a bear dog. The thing that passes that road down there, I know it before it gets near where it's at the sale. See she's right on the job. Yeah. Well I'd say that pretty much. [BLANK_AUDIO]
