-n -n -n [inaudible] Just get comfortable with it and however it feels comfortable. If you would, just give us your name, full name. Gene Elizabeth Moses. And place of birth, date of birth. Richmond, Virginia. I was born in March 15th, 1936. And father's full name. My father's name was John William Irving Wicker. He was a railroad person. He died at the age of 45. And your mother's full name? Kathleen El Nora. The maiden name? Okay, Creasy. Creasy was her maiden name. And how many brothers and sisters did you have? I had five of us all together. Three brothers and one sister. And this, we're doing this interview today at Jellico, Tennessee. It's 3.30 in the afternoon, September 24, 1993. The interview is being conducted under the auspices of the Kentucky Historical Association and the Kentucky Oral History Association. So if you would, now that we've got all this biographical data down, the three questions that we talked about earlier, when did you first move into the region? You said it was about 20 years ago. And you know, tell us a little bit about when you moved here and why you moved here. Okay, I moved here in 1973. And my husband was from Barbersville, Kentucky. But his mother lived here at the time here in Jellico. And we came to just pay her a visit. But after paying her the visit and seeing mountains for the first time, I just fell in love with Jellico, the small uniqueness of it, and not the everyday rush rush that you see in big cities. And she became ill with cancer. So I continued to take care of her instead of us, as it originally started out, just a trip here to visit, you know, and then decided to go somewhere else. We decided to stay here, make our home here, build a house on that property that we have there. So we started building this A-frame house. And his mother was in the trailer. And as I said, I tended to her during that time. And then when we had hoped that we would have the house completed before she passed away. And I kept telling her about the beautiful rooms she was going to have and everything, you know, because this is a woman that had a lot of hardship in her life. There was an outdoor toilet, you know, the outhouses they call it, you know, and they had an old house over 100 years old sitting there. And we had to literally-- Was it a log house or a frame house? No, no, just built from bits and pieces that her husband got together. You know, and it was very difficult for them. How many kids had they raised there? He had a brother and a sister. The brother passed away when he was younger, a swimming accident. But the daughter is still living. And my husband there, he was a barber in Richmond for over 22 years. And when we came down here to visit, we decided to just stay and build that house and stay here. And so he retired. He said, I'm going to retire. And he said, you can retire because I've worked since I was 16 years old, the day after I turned 16. Many, many jobs in my lifetime, many careers and so forth. And so I said, well, this is my time to retire, you know. But then after being here for a while, it was like I was beginning to get bored. And I really wanted to get involved in something. So Charlene O'Hara, who moved here, she was a drama person from New York City. And she had a little boy and she had time on her hands just like I did. So she created what is now called Jollico Children's Theater. Now, my daughter at the time was maybe 12 years old. So she wanted to be in the play. So I went to every rehearsal, you know, every rehearsal. And she just loved it, you know, and I loved being a part of it. And then she said, I've got to have a board. I've got to form a board for this children's theater. Will you be on the board? I said, oh, yes, I've never been on a board before in my life. This was something new for me. So I came on the board and then several months later, she found that her and her husband were going to have to move back to Texas down property in various places. And he operates an oil company. So she approached Mountain Women's Exchange. Would you be willing to adopt Jollico Children's Theater? Since you didn't start it as a project, you know, would you adopt it? So we spoke about that and the board met around it and they decided, yes, we should do that because this is something for the youth in the community, something that's needed very bad. So what I decided to do there was a lady called Barbara Green that was the director of Mountain Women's Exchange at that time. And I knew her. And as I continued meeting and talking with her, she said, you should stay with the theater. You should keep doing this. You should come in and volunteer. Right now, we can't afford to pay anybody, but if you would volunteer. So I volunteered for six months. The first play I did was a play about drug abuse called White Line. It had 48 high school students in it that came from all over, not just Jollico. They came from White Oak. They came from Little Elk, from Elk Valley. They had a car pool. These kids were car pools, six and seven of them, in a car at a time. So this made you proud. You know, they were like, oh boy, they're really excited about doing this play. And then when they did perform at the high school, we had a full house standing people. You know, there was only standing room. And so I necessarily came excited about that. And I kept saying, well, I have to keep doing this. You know, and then I found out that I could continue to get a half credit for these students, which helps them because a lot of these students that have graduated from high school, they cannot graduate. They're lacking one half credit or they're lacking several credits. And there's no art, music or drama in the local high school. So this gives them that opportunity that they need very bad. And a lot of these children have gone on to become more interested in college. I have four of them so far that are majoring in drama at nearby colleges. One of them has become a journalist through her writing experiences with Jollico Chilis Theater. So it's just made me, you know, even more and more determined to continue to do it, to improve upon it, to provide them with more workshops, better workshops, more professionals coming in and educating them around the different issues of drug abuse, teen pregnancy, teen suicide, AIDS, the one they're working on now is about AIDS. And so you see drama then as very much a vehicle of social, not necessarily social change, but social expression. Right. Or do you see it as a vehicle of social change? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I didn't want to put words in the ground. Even one of our funders, community shares, they're one of our funders. Okay. They have expressed the view that Jollico Chilis Theater presents social change. You know, they're coming in and they're learning, I can have self-esteem, I can have self-confidence, I can get on that stage, I can write a good play. So it's social change at an individual level as opposed to a group like trying to present a point of view or you see what I'm getting at you, so you're saying social changes, these changes that are occurring are occurring for the kids as individuals. Right. But it also reaches out to the parents. Right. It also reaches out to the parents in the community, you know, where they're becoming involved in it, they're getting educated through the process as well as the teenagers are. And the people in the community are getting excited about what we're doing here. It's not just the teenagers. I talk to people all over town. I walk. I don't drive. I walk. And I talk to people and they tell me, well, I went to that play. I enjoyed that play. It was dynamic. It was great. It was, I mean, they just shocked me. The kids have wonderful, they performed and had ease. They were about talking about these issues, portraying it, you know, and then a lot of instances, these, these adults, they're, they're not educated around the issues. So that, you know, that kind of helps. He says don't put that in the book. No, we won't put that in there. No. Now you can tell we're a first rate crew. We are. Okay. No. So you see it then as, as also the parents are very supportive and involved with. Now one of the, I like to try to frame things date wise. So that gives me kind of a frame of reference. You say you moved here in 73 and you all had been living in Richmond and, and your husband was a barber and you said you had pursued many careers. What were some of the careers that you had pursued? Okay. I know it's private duty for several years. I've worked in tobacco plants. I found out I didn't like that real good. I mean, I was good at it. I was good at what I did fast with my hands. I was able to do the work, but just doing the same thing continuously over and over and over. Driving nuts. Yes. This is not for me. But then I was a sales girl at one of the biggest department stores in Richmond, Virginia and I actually excelled at that. I did very well at that. But that still was not my niche. And then I worked at a restaurant. I wind up managing this restaurant for 15 years. Even when the owner chose to go to Lebanon one time, I opened and I closed for two weeks for him. And this restaurant was not located in the best of areas. I worked in a very bad location. But I knew the people. I got to know them. They knew me. You know, my house was red then. They called me red. And they would just tell me everything that was going on in the neighborhood. You know, you could leave that store and you could walk, say several blocks to visit with someone. Okay. Then that night I would go back to work at the store. Different ones would come in. Oh, I saw you down at Granny Mose or I saw you down here at Soothe. And I'm like, huh, I didn't see you, you know. But that's the kind of community it was. And I had a car then, an old 50-year-old's mobile. I'll never forget it. I could not park it in front of the restaurant where I work. So I parked it down here in front of this other restaurant, which is not the best either, you know, community-wide violence, why and so forth. But I parked it there and I said, well, I just hope it's all in one piece when I come back to Daniel later to get it, you know. When I went back, there were two teenagers, you know, standing around my car. And I said, oh, y'all keep now my car for me. Red, we didn't know this was your car. I said, what do you mean you didn't know it was my car? And the way they were saying it, I didn't like that, you know. He said, give us five minutes. Just give us five minutes. We're going to bring it all back. I had a dress in there. I had some money, personal items, you know, they had wiped it clean, but they brought everything back. And from then on, it was, and we know that's your car. So we're going to keep a good eye on it. Nobody's going to touch your car. So you moved from Richmond down here. And that was in '73. And then you say your daughter was, oh, I meant to ask you, your husband's name? Ferris Moses. And your children, how many children did you have? Okay. I have a daughter, Angela, who's 38. My son, Joseph, he's 37. He's an electrical engineer and he races motorcycles as a hobby. He's one trophy so-called. And then my youngest daughter, she is 18. She's graduated from high school. She's married. She's now working. I have another grandson. She had a little boy. He's eight months old. And I have other grandchildren. I have six grandchildren. And you're an older daughter. What does she do? She works for a construction company. And so, okay, I've got all that framed in now. And I guess the one that's 18 now is that the one that was 12 when you said you started doing the community career. Right, right. So that would have been, say, back in '86 or '87, when you- 1987, when you got started getting involved with the Jellico Children's Theater. Okay, now we talked about the different, some of the different. Okay, just keep going. Just talk about, you know, we were talking about the different the plays that you've done and how the parents were involved and all those kinds of things. And lots of community support. Oh, yeah. And so, how is the theater funded? Is it funded by donations, by grants, by- It's funded by private donations, fundraisers, that we have, I have what you call a project development committee, which consists of between six to eight women, sometimes men. And we have dances, we have bake sales, yard sales, anything that we can come up with to raise money. And this goes back into Jellico Children's Theater. We have been funded by Tennessee Arts Commission, Appalachian Community Fund, East Tennessee Foundation, National Endowment for the Arts, Community Shares, funds, overall Mountain Runs Exchange, but it also includes Jellico Children's Theater, Ronald McDonald's Children's Charities, we've been funded by them, Father Francis Marion Fund. About how many performances or how many productions will you try to mount every year? And about how much does it cost to operate the Children's Theater on a yearly basis? Have you got that? Okay. My budget for JCT is a little over 36,000 a year. Now, at some point in time, we're able to raise that amount of money. And then again, we're not able to raise the total amount of money for my budget. So when that happens, like anything else, you have to start pension pennies, you have to start cutting back, you have to present a play that's going to take the least expense in stage props. When you have your workshops, you have to cut back sometimes on the speakers that you have to pay. You have to have people that can volunteer their services to come in here. We just have to basically cut corners when we don't get enough money. We're trying desperately to fix the stage here the way it should be. There's no curtain there. There are no lights on the stage that they're in. There are no microphones for the children to speak into. So they have to really work hard at projecting their voices. Which is not necessarily bad. No, no. In a sense, that's good for them. But in another sense, they keep saying each year, well, we need a little more. We need this or we need that. But it's very difficult, especially in Jellico, which is a low-income area. People are struggling here. You cannot raise the large amount of money here to a fundraiser, like you would in Knoxville, or big cities. You might raise thousands of dollars at a time. We consider ourselves very lucky if we raise a hundred dollars. That's a good day for you all if you go out. Now, how many productions would you, for this amount of money, this 36,000 here, how many productions would you end up trying to? Of course, you do workshops and different things. But major productions, will you try to do one in the fall, one in the spring? Or we try to do a comedy that's already written, and the comedy is created around a dinner theater. You will have a dinner served, and then you will have the comedy play. When they write a play, when we choose to have them write a play, then they start on writing the play after the comedy. They'll start on writing the play, which takes several months, involvements of workshops, so forth, so on. Then it goes into the next year, where you can start your rehearsals, because the play is written. So it takes a longer when you're writing a play. It takes a lot longer with the kids. To develop it. But now, as I understand it, the way that you are most of your productions now, or all of your productions, student-written and produced and acted. So this gives them hands-on from all different. Oh yeah. And do you kind of have people that like, this one writes it, and that one does this, or is it a community effort in terms of everybody doing everything? Well, no. We started out one time. I had five writers. That was very difficult. That was very difficult. So we decided now that we will use either two girls by themselves, or either two girls and a boy. And it all depends a lot when I meet with these children, like on Monday, I'm going to meet with them. And if I can get two girl writers, so far one has built out her application, that she's very interested in writing. She wants to help write the play. How old is she? She's 15. She's ready to go. She's ready to go. Oh yes, I'll fire it up about it. You know. So that's good. So you need one other girl to try to recruit to write. Right. And then of course I've already told you, we're going to come back when you stage the play. And or maybe even while you're rehearsing, and after you get it written, and doing some rehearsals, we'll come back and take some more pictures and do some more interviews. And hopefully get the kids in the book as a group, as a theatrical production. Oh yeah, right. Right. They would love that. And certainly if there's lots of girls involved, we need students. And so we can use these girls as a-- See, I had a group of girls and two boys that went over to the Hilton Hotel in Knoxville, and they performed a workshop for the drama teacher out of the Oak Ridge Community Theater. Now this is the first time in their life, they'd ever performed any type of workshop in front of people they did not know. These were people from Aruba, New York, all over, you know. But oh, they were just amazed when they walked in that big hotel and they saw that, you know. Who were these two kids? The boys or the girls? What, the both? Oh, well, they-- the names? Shannon Weiner, Richard Kellogg, Mike Johnson, Carol Malone, I'm trying to think of the other girls. Akendra Curitan. When you say they went and did a workshop at the Hilton, was it a-- did they put on a play? No. It was like when you say it works out, what do you consist of? It was-- what he told them to do, he told them to sit on the floor. They sat down on the floor. And then this other man went around to him and he said, "Now I want you to think about one of your worst fears. What is one of your worst fears?" And so they're sitting there and they're thinking about it, you know. Then he goes back to them very quietly and he said, "Have you decided which is one of your worst fears?" And they said, "Yes." And he asked them what it was, you know, they told him, "But we didn't hear that." You know, "We didn't hear that, not in the audience." So then he asked each one of them to stand up and tell the audience what their fear was. Now this was very difficult for a lot of these children. What were some of their fears? Okay. One was a girl that had been to the doctor and he said that you might have cancer. And I want you to come back and we're going to do more tests. And when she said that, that was the first time that she had really spoke, you know, to an open audience about this. And she cried and that was my daughter that said that. And she said, "I didn't mean to break down, mama," she said, "but it was emotional, you know, and I'm glad that I said it, that I was able to say it, you know, to get it out in the open, to feel like someone else knows about this besides me." And then there was a young man that was afraid of snakes. And of course the other kids kind of giggled at him about that, you know, but he said, "Petrophile snakes cannot stay in the sight of snakes," you know. And then another one was, she was afraid that she would never marry and that she would have to live the rest of her life alone. Now to some people, they can accept something like that, living alone, they can accept it. But to this girl, she couldn't and she felt. Felt a little bad about it. But it was more or less, you know, expressing themselves, you know. And he told them that teenagers don't like to hug. And he said, "You should realize, teenagers should realize that there's nothing wrong with hugging and touching people, you know, and being more close, talking to them. And out of this, one of the students that went over there before, he was talking to a very nice person, you know, but never a hug or never a thank you gene or anything, you know. And when we got back from Knoxville, when he was getting ready to leave after it was all over with, you know, he'd come up to me and hug me. And he said, "Thank you for today." And I said, "You're welcome. I enjoyed having you there, you know. But through experiences like that, they learn a lot of things. They learn a lot that a lot of times they can't learn at home. Or they have no immediate family that can cope with some of the things that they need to talk about, they need to discuss. They keep, a lot of times they keep things bottled up. They keep a lot of things bottled up. And when they come in here and they get on stage and I give them a mean part, an angry part, then they can get up there and that anger comes out. I mean, you can see it. You can sit here and you can see it. And I have to say sometimes, "Now, wait a minute. We're going overboard, overboard, you know. Slow down, slow down, you know." But a lot of that helps them just getting up on that stage and being free to be this character. I am this character for now. If he's angry, I'm angry. If he's happy, I'm happy, you know. And they feel, they say that this is their home away from home. Because everybody is friendly with them and they're their own selves when they come in here. We don't put a lot of restrictions on them. Of course, we don't allow them to run and scream all over the place, especially if we're rehearsing when there are other things going on. But that's basically how it goes. Well, how did you, you know, you said you took your daughter to the children's theater. And that's how you got involved with it and got them for directors. But had you, was that your first experience with the theater? Or had you had you had a, I detect a long time yearning for drama. And had you read a lot of plays or seen a lot of plays? Well, when I went to church, Third Presbyterian Church in Richmond, Virginia, they performed plays on the stage. And I was in several of those plays. My mother, as I look back on it, my mother was always pushing me out in the public because I was a very shy person. You know, I didn't want to talk to people. I didn't want to be in the public. You know, or talk to anybody one on one or group or anything like that. I was very, very shy. It was a mother's girl, very, very shy. Clung to her and I clung to my father all the time. So I was on the radio. I read script on the radio. I sang on the radio. My brother that was in the army, he paid so that I could take tap dancing. I was on the stage three times. I performed at the Lyric Building in Richmond, Virginia. And all of those experiences have helped me do what I'm doing now. And it's maybe it's created a background for that, you know, but I've always been interested in, and as I got older, you know, working with people, being involved with people. And so I think I think that's kind of helped me a lot. What do you see the role of you were talking about how they didn't have any music or drama programs here in Jellicoat. Now the official name would be Jellico High School. Jellico High School. Jellico High School. They didn't have any of those kinds of programs. Do you think the the now how many students will you have participating in your program during the course of a season? Will it be 10 kids, 15 kids, 20 kids? Oh, you know, total numbers. Well, doing one play 30 to 35. But I also do a summer program with the younger children ages four through 14. So what you're telling me then is that in the fall, you'll do the play that was maybe written a year before the spring before that. And then in the winter months, you'll spend time writing the next play. And then in the summer, you'll do workshops. And so essentially you've got one major production every year that will involve 30 or 35 kids. You don't do workshops in the summertime. Well, what was it you just said you know, it's called summertime creative arts activities. It's for the younger children. Six, seven, eight, four years old through 14. And we do it in this room for two weeks and it's free. And you have like crafts one day, art, music, karate, Appalachian storytelling. And they also have a free lunch. Which is provided by East Tennessee Human Resources Park. But as there, you know, no outside activities, but the children become involved in, this is something that they really look forward to. Now the first time I did it, I didn't think it through very clearly, you know, and I had 81 children in this room. Now you cannot work with 81 children of different ages. And you need to do that. Yes. So I had to separate them. The younger ones would come in the morning and the older ones would come later. But they all would have their lunch, you know. But that's grown each year. That's doing very, very good. So it's not only I'm working with high school children, I also work with the younger ones. And that takes a lot of work to get that created for the summer. I start on that in January. Right. What do you see as, well before I ask you, yeah, what do you see as the future for the Jellico Children's Theater? And what role do you see it? Do you see it staying the same, getting bigger, going in different directions? You've talked about all these social issues and you see it as a social change thing. Do you see the potential there for, like some of the things Marie was talking about, some land issues for the kids doing things on strip mining, or would that be too political? Well, they did one about recycling one time. But it was a skit. And that was done through a young lady that was doing an internship through Highlander Center. And we created with her assistance a skit about recycling. And we performed it at Jellico High School. Now, the issues that concern the teenagers, that they want you to do a play about, that's really what our plays are all about. So the larger issues, the bigger issues, they may or may not be something the kids are interested in. And generally, in fact, probably wouldn't be. You know, they're more interested in, when you say they're concerned about, like you said, you're going to do a play this fall on AIDS. They're concerned about AIDS. They were concerned, what was the other play you did last, the one on, the one just prior to this? AIDS, that was called JoBee. And now what's the one they're going to write? The one they are getting ready to write is going to be titled Angela. What I basically try to do with them is give them a little plot, you know, and then let them go with it from there. I'm not going to sit and say, okay, this is, you know, say this, do this, that, you know, I'm not going to spell it all out for them. What's your little plot for Angela? My plot for Angela is, okay, since this is around AIDS, venereal diseases, and teen pregnancy, I believe Angela is going to be the one that has AIDS. She has AIDS and she has a boyfriend and she becomes pregnant. And her, her, she has to deal with her family with that. Has she has to deal with high school students, her friends, how they're going to feel about this? You know, she's going to high school. Is she going to be able to continue to go to high school? Are she going to be shunned? Are people going to turn their back on her? Are they going to be afraid of her? You know, we want to, we want to hear all that, we want to hear every bit of that in this play. Who's afraid of her? Is the principal afraid of her? Are the students afraid of her? Are her parents afraid of her? Who, you know, and so how many anxieties is she coping with that's put on to this teenage girl? And then another crisis is put on to her. She's pregnant. And then she's got to be concerned with whether the child's going to be born with AIDS. 95% chance that it will be born with AIDS. And she's going to leave that legacy, you know, and who's going to support her? Who are going to be the people that support her? Should she have an abortion? Should she have an abortion? Yes. Everything, oh yes, yes, they'll talk about everything. All of it, oh yes. How long will this process, after you give them this little plot? And they start talking about all these issues. How long does it act? Will it actually take them, you know, at what point will you give them this little plot? Like say in October, I mean, or have you already done it? I mean, they will have that completed by the end of November. Well, when did they first, when they started school in August, you've already been meeting with them? Oh yeah. Okay, what stage of the process are they in now with Angela now? Well, the workshops, they'll be doing the workshops, you know, they've set in on workshops and they're going to set in on more workshops. And then when that stops, then these writers will start writing. And I'll find other areas of work for the other students to become involved in while these writers meet by themselves. So that they can have the quiet that they need to. And this is the one the 15 year old girl's involvement, you were telling me that was one of your writers? Or is that another one? Yeah. Okay, who are the writers for this one right now? Oh, oh yeah, there's one here. Oh, me, I can take your name right up. I've got all that in my office. But have they actually started the writing yet or? No, no. That's not, when did that happen? No, that'll happen in October. Okay. And then it should be written by sometime in November. Completed by the end of November. Completed by the end of November and then you'll start doing rehearsals in January. Rehearsals in January and performance in March. Performance in March. Okay. It's a great idea. But we'll get back with you to come whenever they, I guess when you when you actually get it. Now so far, how many writers do you have doing this to? To. And they're both girls? Uh-huh. We may, we may need to come back and shoot them in the event. I haven't, I have a date at the high school March the 4th to do it over there. I want to do it there for the general public at night because they have a better parking area, you know, more parking space. And I can get more people in there than I can get here. Now, have you thought, have you given any thought to the idea after they do this play and perform it here, have you given any thought to trying to take it safe, say doing a one night performance at the Oak Ridge Theater or somewhere like that? Had you thought about taking that out of the community to Nashville or maybe doing something at the B.U. or you know one night. Yeah, if I receive some of this funding that I'm waiting to hear from, okay, then I can afford to transport them to these different places, you know, the East Tennessee human resources there. It was their van, $9 a child that took us over to Oak Ridge, you know, and if I have the funding to pay for that, you know, to take these groups of children, then I can do that. How much would it, where would you like to take? Oh, where would I love to take them? I mean, I would go. Well, that Oak Ridge community playhouse would be great. Would they let you put one on over there, you think? I don't see why not, since I've worked with him. You know the director? Oh, yes. Who is the guy over there? Mr. Fuller. Is it Don? Ron, I believe. Ron, yeah, Ron. Ron Fuller. And how much would it cost you to do that, to take them over there? Well, by van, and see, they have a driver, he's very qualified, and the parents feel comfortable with that. Now, that's $9 a child. So, you know, what you would have, you would have to, you might have to wind, I know you can get 15 in that van, you can get 15 in that van, but you might have to have two vans. So you're talking about anywhere from $150 to $300. Yes. To take them over to the van. Yeah, to be transported over there, and to bring them back here. Oh, yeah. But like BG Theater, oh my goodness, Clarence Brown Theater. Have you given any thought to, say for instance, when you do the play, doing a video tape of it? You know, just film it. Oh, we always video our play. Video it, and then maybe send it to the people at UT, and to Oak Ridge, and to, say for instance, the Cumberland County Playhouse. See, that's where I'm from, the CrossFit. Oh, okay. And you know, some of the regional theaters around and say, hey, we'd like to come and do this. Sounds like Oak Ridge would be your best bet. The cheapest in order to push UT would be wonderful to have something like that. And there's Cumberland College over here. Uh-huh, at Williamsburg. Yeah. Is that where it is? How far away is it? It's about 35 minutes, at the most. And, well, maybe you can-- But see, that's a dilemma. You know, we don't have a van, you know. But for $9 a kid, you can take them to Oak Ridge and-- Yeah. But to be able to take the majority of them, you know, we would have to have two vans. So for buying them, supper and taking trash, everything, it cost you about $500 to take it on the road for one night. Now, I would like to even go to some of the nearby, the other schools, you know, take it to the-- Are you going to do a performance at Campbell County High School? If they allow us, if they don't have too many activities going on during that time. You know, I have to talk with them and if they can fit me in there, you know, we've done it before. We performed Joe B. over there twice. How did that go? Very good. They were receptive and like-- Oh, yeah. Yeah, there was a full house. Twice to the high school? Uh-huh. The same day, twice in the same day. How did the kids act? Were the kids-- did they behave well? And I know in Crossville, when we take, you know, we take kids to the playhouse a lot. And frequently, we have lots of problems with school kids, you know, as a group, some of them misbehaving. But do you-- Well, I told them. I told them, I said, "You're over here at Campbell County High School." I didn't mean your kids you were taking, but I meant the kids in the audience, they responded to it. And behaved. Oh, yeah. No, no. Now, one time, the teacher had to tell them, you know, to be quiet. She wanted total quiet before the play started. Well, they weren't quiet. So they cut the lights back on. She said, "We'll cut the lights off one more time. And if you're not quiet, you all can go back to your rooms, you know." So they all got quiet, you know. And then they clapped after it was over with. They came up to the different students and talked to them about how brave they were to do that, and how great a play they did. They were just-- This one should receive lots of applause, you know, for that. Because it's a real-- it's going to be a real challenging thing. Oh, it is. Well, hopefully you guys will get to take it. At least I would hope to Oak Ridge, you know. And I'm always-- I've always been real good with PR, getting publicity for my students. I'll have the different newspapers come in here to cover it. Now we're still going. What do you see for the future? For the theater, are you going to just try to continue like you are? Or are you going to try to do more and bigger things? Or it seems to me like you've got a pretty good handle on the way you're doing it, with letting them write the plays and everything. It seems like it's more of a productive effort than just staging a play, you know, where you-- because they're doing it from beginning to end. And getting involved in all aspects of it, rather than just trying to put it all. Yeah. When they do it, they feel like they have a voice in the community. The community is hearing their concerns. They're not hearing my concerns, voice through teenagers. That's not the way it should be. It should come directly from the teenagers. And when they did the white line play about drug abuse, there was a lot of violence in it. Well, there is a lot of violence connected with drug abuse. There are people getting killed all the time. People getting beat up because they don't have the money to pay for the drugs. And they showed that. And they showed the pushers. And they showed the prostitutes. And they showed everything, you know. And at first, some of the girls said, "Well, I don't know about being a prostitute." How did the community react to those kinds of roles? Well, like I say, it was a full house. And the mayor and the chief of police complimented me. And that, you know, what else can you say? And everybody, everybody was like, Jelico was buzzing about this play, about drug abuse. Now Jelico is going to be buzzing about a play about AIDS, you know. And they-- Do you think the community is ready for it? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. I think they've been ready for it. Let me ask you this question. Has anyone in Jelico yet died from AIDS? I know in Cumberland County we've had the vice president of my senior class died from AIDS. Two or three years ago, and there are probably 10 or 15 people in the county now that have AIDS. Yeah. Well, Jelico, there are some things that you hear about. There are some things that people talk about and some things they don't talk about. And right now I have never heard anyone say a person's name that they died of AIDS or that they have AIDS, you know. And it's very hard to even get that type of information. I mean, I don't even believe right now you could go to the hospital and ask them how many people have been in here that have died from AIDS, that they'll tell you, you know. You can get statistics. Yeah, the statistics for Campbell County, I got in last year when I was teaching down there. I think they had-- they said there were eight confirmed cases in Campbell County. Now that doesn't mean Jelico. Right. And then there are a lot of myths around it, you know. Some people think that if you're in the same room with a person who has AIDS, you're going to get AIDS. Now to my knowledge, there are only three different ways you can get AIDS. That's the needle, hypodermic needle through drug use, using the same needle, the blood transfusions, and sex. But there are some people saying that, oh, if they spit, you know, spit into a cup or something like that, you can get AIDS, you know. And so what's going to happen at these different workshops, they're going to be educated around these things. That last play I did, I had planned on bringing someone here through AIDS response that had AIDS. Well, one of the children told his parents about it, and the parents said, no, you will not go because you walk in that room, you'll get AIDS. So see, there are a lot of myths. Yeah. So you see what play then is an opportunity maybe to clarify and eliminate some of the mythology about it. But you know, you know, there are going to be some people out there that no matter what you tell them and what you show them. Right. Right. But the teenagers I work with, they're becoming more educated, more knowledge, you know, and they understand the issues and they accept them. You know, they don't, they don't say, oh, just because you're telling me that. It's not so, you know, not true. And I also want to bring someone here this time that has AIDS so that they can talk with them and tell their story. That's just like someone that's been addicted to drugs. It's very difficult for them to make that step, to make that commitment, to stand in front of people and talk about how that life has been, but that they are totally changed now. Now that's going to be the same. I would think would be kind of the same way for a person with AIDS. How are you going to accept me? How are you going to feel about me? You know, and teenagers, tell her to be quiet. It's definitely, it's not by. No, because we're not going to broadcast it. It's just for me to, oh, okay. What I'll do is transcribe it off on a word processor and so they're looking at something. Oh, okay. It will come out. But is anything else? Yeah. I guess one more thing. Let reduce your, if you could, kind of what do you see? What do you see as the future for not just in the arts, but just what do you see in the future for here in the mountains? You know, you're talking about Jellico. You're saying it's depressed economically. The people don't have much money. Do you see any of that changing? Or is there anything that's dynamic that's happening in the community that in the future you see that it's going to change? Well, I've always hoped that more bigger businesses would come into the community. But every time you hear about a place coming like McDonald's or something like that, you know, then they say, oh no, they're not coming here. They went to Williamsburg or they went to Lafala, you know. But you always wonder why didn't they come here? But you hear different types of excuses and I for one don't believe all these different excuses. Why didn't they come here? Well, the only reason I can think of is that they think that they might not make enough money for McDonald's to have a McDonald's here. But I find that is very untrue because I see tourists and they stop me. And the first thing that comes out of them now is where is McDonald's? Where is your McDonald's? And I'll say, I wish we had a McDonald's here, but you've got to go to Williamsburg, you know. And I don't know. It looks like you have people on the council here that are closed minded that say, oh, my friend has this grocery store and my friend has this other business here and he's running this restaurant. And so we don't want to bring in competition. And like I've heard that it was said that Hardys, when Hardys decided to come in here, that some of the said council members said, well, yes, you can come there and yes, we'll promise that we'll not let anybody else. Another food chain come in here. Now, I don't know if that's illegal or not, but I don't think they should do that. So do you think that... What do you see happening? What's going to have to happen in Jollico is that people, they can get some experience in running restaurants, running a craft store, a place that sells different types of crafts, they make draperies, whatever their expertise are, what they're comfortable with, that's the type of business they need to start. And that's what they need to put downtown. Now, there's a row of buildings down there where the city is going to take over and remodel them. And if you can afford to get enough money to start your own business, then, you know, it's got to be something though that's going to catch the eye of the tourists and also community people. And you've got to bear in mind that these are not people with big salaries. Who's the biggest employer here in Jollico? Is there any one place that enforces like most of the people? Probably that sewing factory, that little sewing factory over there. But you're still talking minimum wage. You're talking for 25 an hour. And the people work at the sewing factories, they could work there 15 years. You're still working at for 25 an hour. You have nothing to look forward to. They can't tell you, well, next year you've got to get a raise to $6. And you're going to be promoted, you know, to this easier job. If you're lucky next year, you'll still be making $4.25 an hour. Yeah. Yeah. Consider yourself lucky. And in the meantime, you get laid off. And you get laid off. How do you see the role of unions as, you know, certainly in the North and in other parts of the country, unionization did help change that. Of course, that was in a different time, a different era. But do you see unionization as being a solution to any of those problems? Or do you see it as a maybe even worse than, you know, making it worse, like causing some of them to go out of business? Or if they had to pay more, what do you think? Well, unions, I imagine are good in a lot of respects that they protect the employee. You know, they see that they get their benefits, the benefits they should get and everything. But I imagine it would take a big business to have a union come in. You know, you'd have to have that very large business first. So far, you don't have that very big factory here that's hiring hundreds and hundreds of people. You don't have that. You don't have that. And it's desperately needed. A factory, places that the teenagers now, where are they going to work here? They're going to work at hearties. They're going to make this little minimum salary. What is it training them? They don't want to work at a place like that, a fast food place, the rest of their life. So you're seeing, I guess, what I'm hearing you say is that unless some major industry comes into the area, that the same thing that we've seen for 40 years here of kids growing up and then moving off somewhere else, you see that as the future for Jellico if just out migration in a continued way. Right. Right. You don't see any change. Now, a lot of them, the teenagers, they want to stay here. This is their home. This is where they grew up. This is where their roots are. But how are you going to make that comfortable salary? How are you going to be able to buy a brand new home on what they're offering here? You can't do it. And then they're laying people off. They don't have enough to keep them busy. So they continue to lay them off. Well, there goes the house payment. Then you're on welfare. And people don't want to be on welfare. They don't want to feel a step below mud hole or something. It's very demeaning. It's very demeaning to have to even accept welfare. And the kids are struggling real hard to get their education, to make something better for themselves. And if they have to go outside to work, to create their business or whatever, who knows, maybe later they could bring it back here if Jellico would grow, if Jellico would keep growing and bringing in new opportunities. There's a swimming pool over at Endy Mountain State Park. Many, many years they said there was going to be a swimming pool over there. Everybody talked about that. People that were running for commissioners or something like that. But nothing never happened. When I heard about it, I went around and I took up a petition with names on it. Then I wrote a five page handwritten letter to the governor. At that time was Governor Lamar Alexander. And he got in touch with the conservation parks, the system, you know. They now have a swimming pool over at Endy Mountain State Park. Teenagers can work there. They can take their training and be life gods. They can do maintenance. The people that work in the parks now have to go and get more training because that is now classified as a A park, you know, not the B or the C. But some people at the beginning, when they hear about things like that, they don't like change, you know. Oh, I'm going to have to go take all this training and I know what I'm doing. But they don't realize that it's bettering their position. They're taking a step up and it's helping everybody. In some form or fashion, the city sat there and said, "We don't need no swimming pool. We don't want no swimming pool." If you had to reduce your life here, the experience here, the one word or one sentence or what this place is about, what it's meant to you in human terms, what would you say? Well, it's depressing. It's depressing to see the elderly people here and even the younger kids that the elderly don't have the resources, the opportunities that the larger cities have. You don't see people going over there and saying, "Oh, can I carry your groceries home for you? Can I drive you to the grocery store and bring you home? Can I take you to the doctor?" You know, there are a lot of things here that that to shock me, totally shock me when you move from a big city and you come to a smaller area like this and to see some of the conditions that the people are having to live in, having to survive every day. But it's beautiful. In another sense, it's beautiful because of the mountains, because of the rural community, the quietness, the people being friendly. I love that. I love that part of it. I love that part of it. But I just think that more needs to be done for rural areas. Jolico is classified as remote now. So when you're classified as remote, they had a child abuse counselor over here. No, not anymore. She's over in La Follette. So you've got to go to La Follette. Now, if you have the money to put the gas in your car to go over there, then you go. If you don't, you just don't go. You're not able to go. There's no way you can go. Would Jolico be better off being part of Kentucky? I never thought about that. But since we... Yeah. But see, Kentucky now has the lottery. They have numerous businesses over there. Obvious, Pizza Hut, Diminos, you name them. And it goes on and on. And they continue to get more places. Yes, that might be something you want to consider. I don't know how Tennessee would feel about that. Well, the other question too is, I guess, is... I was just sitting here thinking, what role have the churches played in all of this? Are the churches here real active? Do they perceive themselves as agents of social change? Do they perceive themselves as... Do the churches get out and do things in the community? What churches predominantly are here? Baptists. Baptists. Mainly here. You have one small Catholic church. You have a Methodist church, which is right across the street from the exchange. Some of them have food pantries, where they help the people that need emergency food. The Seven-Day Adventist Church, there's a very large Seven-Day Adventist Church here. They help the people with food. They have a food pantry. They have clothing. They help them in some of those places. Because this building looks like a church, we get a lot of people that come in here thinking that if they've run out of gas and they're traveling from here to Oklahoma, wherever, that they can come in here and get monies for gas. But we're not set up for that. So we have to say, well, you call this church or this church or this mission down here. But I would just like so much if some point in time, Jollico could have some of the opportunities that the bigger places have. Make it happier, happier place for the teenagers to be. Like I hear from them, we don't even have a shopping mall. They love a shopping mall where they can just walk through there and look in all these different stores. You can take on any money just for that. Yeah, yeah. Play the slide. What do you call those? Video games. Video games and all, yeah. Well, I guess we've just about done this. We'll just go ahead. [BLANK_AUDIO]
