-n -n -n Unknown Speaker 0:01 It may end up working better than anyway. Okay, we're gonna get to step all the way. Back in size, it's not a real big deal. Today we're interviewing Linda replaster.Unknown Speaker 0:34 1245 Eastern Standard Time. Today is Saturday, May the 28th. Okay, the first few questions that I wanted to ask you, Linda, like we were talking about before your grandparents, and great grandparents were however far back you can go. The names of them on both sides of the family andUnknown Speaker 0:58 on my mother's side of the family. My her father and mother's name was Bascom Kane and ADA Kane. And on my dad's side of the family, my grandmother's name was Nellie Tucker. And I'm not sure what my grandfather's I can't remember what his nameUnknown Speaker 1:16 was. Do you remember where they moved in here from and when? Well, myUnknown Speaker 1:19 dad's parents lived in Tennessee. He was born in Pedras, Tennessee, that's where his parents are from. And that's where he's at now. And my mother's parents have our well, like they've always been around here. SoUnknown Speaker 1:39 when did when did the did your grandparents move in here from Pete Ross?Unknown Speaker 1:44 Like they've never moved in here. That was your father. Right? My father'sUnknown Speaker 1:47 parents always lived in Tennessee. Okay. And so he moved up hereUnknown Speaker 1:52 for a short period of time. He left us when my youngest brother was 17 days out.Unknown Speaker 1:58 And was he a minorUnknown Speaker 2:00 payment for? Several years, not not allowing period of time.Unknown Speaker 2:09 So what was it? So what town Have you always lived in your around? You've always lived in.Unknown Speaker 2:18 I grew up in wrestle County and lived on a plate well lived over there on a place called Pine Creek. And that's where I grew up at. And I've been in Raven area for about 13 A little over 13 years now.Unknown Speaker 2:39 And did you you went to school overnight. Or I went to school at honeck. Okay, graduate from high school know what yourUnknown Speaker 2:51 quittin 76 liked about six weeks finishing in eighth grade and got married when I was 14 years old.Unknown Speaker 3:00 And did that last? Well, you fit the statistics. Let's see. Who did you marry? What was his name?Unknown Speaker 3:14 Jamie RobinetteUnknown Speaker 3:15 Robinette. So how long did you stay married? In that first marriage? And you didn't go You didn't go back to school? Or what kind of did you were you a housewife? Did you work out in the community? What kind of workUnknown Speaker 3:29 I was a housewife for a period of time I worked at sewing factory at Honecker for about four and a half months. got pregnant with my son when I was 16. And anyway, I've got a son that was born in 77, October 77. And I lived with his dad until I was 18 going to almost well. But at nine years old man his dad split it he was two years to about two and a half years. Well that harlot two and a half years old me and his dad split it.Unknown Speaker 4:10 Okay. And then did you go back to school or start? or at what point did you decide you wanted to go into the mines and start work?Unknown Speaker 4:18 I did that before me and his dad split? Oh, you did? Right. And his dad was enthusiastic about work. And so I kind of figured that. I grew up with the Tifway because I've got I'm the oldest of five kids. mom raised us I lived in a house with my grandma and grandpa than mom. And I've got like two brothers and two sisters. Mom worked at sewing factory that a minimum wage job and raised us up on land. And I guess I developed an attitude growing up that whatever you got out of this life you'd work for, you know that nobody was gonna give you nothing.Unknown Speaker 4:59 And you did and you You wanted to work making as much money. That's right.Unknown Speaker 5:03 I knew that I was going to have to work and around, Hey, you're the best paying jobs. I was mostly in the coal mines. And I picked Well, I've got to work. So that's the place for me to go.Unknown Speaker 5:12 Okay, what year did you start working in the mines?Unknown Speaker 5:14 In 79. My 18th birthday was my first day underground.Unknown Speaker 5:20 Well, I just got my picture, quote. We have a quote on each one of the pictures. That's what will be under yours. My 18th birthday was my first day.Unknown Speaker 5:30 First, she applied to pay me triple tap for my firstUnknown Speaker 5:36 get rich working in the triple bottom all the first day,Unknown Speaker 5:40 I noticed like said, I know, I knew that that was going to provide a better living for me and my son and what I could doUnknown Speaker 5:49 what mine was atUnknown Speaker 5:51 Allen creeks VP for around,Unknown Speaker 5:53 and and you told us the date again, it's already down there. What year was in?Unknown Speaker 5:59 It was August the sixth 1979.Unknown Speaker 6:03 Okay. And so you started working in the mines? You're How did you how did you? Did you just go up and say I want to work in the mines and put an application in the heart? Or do you have to know somebody or orUnknown Speaker 6:14 we all put in an application and, and kind of lied to get my job, okay? When I got married, I wasn't old enough to legally marry in the state of Virginia. And I went to the courthouse to get the license and told him how old I really was. So they wouldn't give me a license because I was only 14 years old. So mom goes back. And she sets my age back. The I was born in 61. And she backs it up to 58 and gets the license for me. So an armory and April of 76. And according to the marriage license, I was born in 58. So in August of 76, I take my marriage license, did the young fee, and make my driver's license. I'm 15 years old, and I got a piece of paper saying that I'm 18 years old. So I make my driver's license and I take my driver's license to Island Creek and put in for a job and nobody ever asks for a birth certificate. Enable provided one. And I ended up in the cut of the week I took my 40 hours training. Legally I wasn't old enough to be working. So I can't cheat my way and start withUnknown Speaker 7:23 how are you supposed to be 21? No, you had to be 18 Okay, so you were actually 15?Unknown Speaker 7:28 No, I was saving my 30 hours. So mine are strange. But the first day I worked underground as an actual coal miner. I was like, that was my 18th birthday,Unknown Speaker 7:39 your real 18 Right, my real lightUnknown Speaker 7:41 thing. Which the wake up said I was 21 soUnknown Speaker 7:48 and so what was your first first job? Like, the first what did they have you doing first? Every dirty thing they could find? Were they trying to get rid of you? That wasUnknown Speaker 7:59 their intention? See, you know, the government mandates that they hire the women and at that time, you know, there was a big push going on for women to be put into the mines and they would use luxated You know, they know what I was pretty young and figured that well you know if I did come in at a display for a short period of time and I'd move on to something else. And they tried to discourage you from being there they'd like say they put you to doing anything they could find they put you back on Oh, we spent about four weeks back on a section that they've mined out pulled all the track alphabet it's like 7000 feet that we had to walk to the top end of this section and they left all this trash and buggy flights and just pulled everything up lift all this stuff and then they decided they wanted our LR so we spent about four weeks up our dragon trash 7000 feet cut them out that section deleted it. So stuff I get to what they pulled start with the sleeve howUnknown Speaker 9:04 to how did the Were you the only woman on the shift or were there others?Unknown Speaker 9:08 No, there was a there was one light one of the lady hired in the day yada yada is a red hat. And there was two that's an inexperienced minor and they make you wear a red hat right? For 45 days. And, and during those 45 days they cannot leave you by yourself in that mind's always got to be with an experience matter. They can't leave to read hands together. Always you've always got to have an experience man. And there was two other ladies that hired in the week before the lady that Hardy and with me before me and her did so in way they was four ever star in this group together as new matters.Unknown Speaker 9:54 And who was your supervisor? Do you remember who was going around with you every day?Unknown Speaker 9:58 I know I know the war. And that was on this trash detail his name was TD Collins and he'd say halfway in between where we was loading up the trash and dragging the trace back on rebar kicked back he didn't travel with us he just laid back or shine the sunlightUnknown Speaker 10:21 well did you what was How were you treated your first few months on the job first few weeks months?Unknown Speaker 10:28 Well like I said, you know they tried to they put you to doing things that they picked out that you wouldn't wouldn't enjoy and wouldn't like and try to discourage you from staying and hoping you'd go open you'd quitUnknown Speaker 10:39 well then at some point did they say well we can't get rid of these people. Did any of the four of you women did any of you quit have the four of youUnknown Speaker 10:48 know the one the one lady that hired in the dyad via took a position with the company before we got we got laid out from VP for the man I hired an ad and November of ad anyway she took a position with the company as a irate or something either and she's no longer man andUnknown Speaker 11:10 so but but uh all the four of you and it will nobody actually quit because of the hazing that occurred for Taffer so first you were What did at that point you know at some point down the road when did they start treating you like one of the other miners inUnknown Speaker 11:35 questionableUnknown Speaker 11:39 union God is concerned I understand the sourceUnknown Speaker 11:46 Yeah, the union people do like say you know, we're in our which I've seen a lot of resentment from some of the angle because the fact that we was capable of doing stuff that's supposed to be dirty stuff today but for the most part I the union man you know, it's some of them it might take a little longer than others to come around to the fact that you're allowed to stay but for the most part most of them did you know, they it didn't take them too long but now the company they know for years neighbor fact orUnknown Speaker 12:18 their What What job did you start doing it first that was your first real regular job in the mines I mean, you know that you did for like a long time. The first jobUnknown Speaker 12:28 title that I ever hated say you're having and as general inside laborers and then after after the 45 days trainings up as a new miner then you're allowed to be it the new job jobs that come open and I'd be a tomato helper job that was my first job title it all in the mindsUnknown Speaker 12:50 and they get what you do as a miner so what were your jobUnknown Speaker 12:54 well of kid the keep mine okay, we're out of the row shovel the ribs in behind the monitor while the buggies was gonna help set up the ventilation for the cat to call when anyway I was helping I was helping guys loading and all that black goldUnknown Speaker 13:14 just in general then your job as a miners helper was to kind of keep things in such a way that the miner could could keep to continue to continue to work I'll cut and coal okay. And then how long did you do that? How long were your miners assistantUnknown Speaker 13:31 for about maybe six months and I got laid offUnknown Speaker 13:38 so you weren't there long before he got laid offUnknown Speaker 13:40 from 79 to from July 79 until November of 80 So a little about a year and a half and then they shut the mines downUnknown Speaker 13:54 and then went back to workUnknown Speaker 13:56 right i paneled for VP CX and was hired back at VP sixUnknown Speaker 14:01 when you say panels what does that mean?Unknown Speaker 14:03 When when you're laid out? You're eligible to go put your name on a list of all the demands that got there in panel for any job titles that you're qualified and capable to do?Unknown Speaker 14:15 Does it go mostly by seniority or does go by saying so you can kind of look and see where you're on in the pecking order figure out how long it's gonna be how long it's gonna take you to get back so and then then you you went back to which one andUnknown Speaker 14:29 I went to VP six and February of 81Unknown Speaker 14:32 okay and they put you back into went in is doing the same thing now when in his general inside labor again but once again so you kind of been dropped back.Unknown Speaker 14:39 I was dropped but I was dropped back from top pay that to the lowest paying job.Unknown Speaker 14:45 But you're back at work right so then how long did you work is general inside labor get into you've got to begin on a job andUnknown Speaker 14:53 I'm not sure about that. Right? I mean, it wasn't it wasn't long, maybe a couple months. Okay,Unknown Speaker 14:59 maybe Get on another job right and what did you bid on this time around? Same thing?Unknown Speaker 15:03 I don't remember that either foot No, I think I'd be a to a roof Bolton job.Unknown Speaker 15:08 Okay. And then so you were a reporter for quite some time orUnknown Speaker 15:14 for a couple years and anyway since I've been at six have been there's been a couple of layoffs and some realignments and before we get shifted around stuff for a short period of time so and I've held several job titles over since I've been there,Unknown Speaker 15:33 which ones have you helped with what else have you done your since you've been aUnknown Speaker 15:37 scoop operator tamatar help their roof both are general inside the veil job sound maintenance Trainee program for a while have training Trainee program, I got to stay on it for months. Like they didn't want to train no women to be under maintenance for so they got away with it. And they never instated reinstated in one sense.Unknown Speaker 16:08 So how long have you had that job then from fromUnknown Speaker 16:12 from February of 81 till presentUnknown Speaker 16:16 so you've been there now for a long time. And you've done all those things during this time of all the jobsUnknown Speaker 16:22 and then everything they've got to do in that place of allUnknown Speaker 16:24 the jobs that you've done which one did you like the bestUnknown Speaker 16:29 probably roof boat and that's what I'm doing now. Which I'm I'm fed up at now so I don't know what I'm going back to because they they've added so much more work and stuff to it. Now we're having to shuffle the cart line on an average we're shoveling about eight to 10 ton of coal with day by hand off the Curt landfalling center ventilation up in it we've got to go in a boat at the places shovel cart line do the desk and set up all the ventilation now when you say the dust is that was saying and with rock dust this to keep the nuts keep the coal dust down where if we ever have an ignition where it won't be just it won't be gay son. Cody is about to be a big boneUnknown Speaker 17:18 Well, now that you mentioned that now that you mentioned the safety aspect of it. How do you feel about do you feel safe working in the mines? Do you feel unsafe? Do you feelUnknown Speaker 17:30 how do you feel it's mixed feelings. And for last several years it's it's getting worse. You know, it's not safety. It's not as it's not as safe as it should be. And surf and we're really looking at a deal right now concise about our about our company in July of last year took over. Anyway, they've had these projections for these plans for couple of three years now of cutting VP five and VP six mine together. And like say, Well, I work in a Shyft mines, it's 1500 63 feet deep. That's how far down we go. Before we go back in and work takes couple minutes drops to the bottom. You know, andUnknown Speaker 18:16 the high speed elevator, right? Three feet peopleUnknown Speaker 18:19 and within I think I've timed it seemed like about two minutes flat drewUnknown Speaker 18:25 on the bottom. So it goes pretty rapidly, right?Unknown Speaker 18:29 And but anyway, they've got these plans of cutting these two shapes together. VP fives had a major explosion at their minds. One that who've the parking lot done a bunch of structural damage on the surface. When they had their explosion. We've been lucky and not had anything like it happened at six. But anyway, they're in the process trying to cut those two minds together. And neither place has ever been able to control the methane that we've got now. Six is right brought up to the top with the gaseous mines in this country. And anyway, they're planning on cutting them together now and it worries me because you know, I've said you know, our separate minds they can't keep them to where they should with the guys with the guys under control them together. When they come together then you're opening up and even vaster area to try to keep ventilated and stuff so it's going to create even a bigger hazard force.Unknown Speaker 19:28 Do you feel will you if they do do that? Would it be bother you enough to cause you to quit or would youUnknown Speaker 19:37 wail I really don't know. Yes, it really bothers me and like Cydia they've talked a lot about and see right now the permits are held up they can't get permits to cut them together. And they're frightened in the fact that they'll shut us down if they don't get a cut them together. And the livelihood the two minds as separate minds has got a Four to five years of pay slave of man and in cutting them together, we've only got seven years max with the toe cut together. So I'd rather see him just leave it like it is let us man hours they aren't let their mind ours out and be done with it. But you know, that likes it or not gonna do that. And I've told Bathsheba when they get to talk about NASA. Well, for my part, I just felt so unsafe them shut it down and get the permits. I said that well, you know, I'd have no other choice but to move around. And at least they wouldn't be building the big bomb for me to be in our area.Unknown Speaker 20:33 What are you? What are you? What would you move on to if you work? Okay, now you're looking at say, say for instance, five years, minimum, seven years maximum? On the outside in terms of what's down the road for you as a minor? You'd have very nearly 20 years. Would you be able to retire? Get a pension with 20 years?Unknown Speaker 20:54 Well, it's there, but I'm not old enough. So okay, so I'll have my 20 years if it lasts another five years this summer, wait, maybe 15 years? Here in a couple months, Mike my 15 years wait. So if it lasts another five years, and I get a stay, then I'm gonna have my 20 years and but that's not not any good to me until I get 55 or 62 years old. You know, wait, let's be 65 time I get up there. And you'dUnknown Speaker 21:22 have you'd have your 20 years and when you're in your 30s I'm 38 or retired before your 40s. Right. Not 20 years. But what would you do? If you weren't mining? What? What kind of work would you get into?Unknown Speaker 21:41 I've tried to figure it out. But I'm not really sure I know, they've got to which you know, they give notice at the mines that are going to lay out baby saving people at Airman and 120 summit BP five minds with this merger, they you have the two minds. And I know they've got a training program out there now for displaced workers. And there's several other guys gonna apply for that. Which would be you know, it's a good thing, specially for me, which I went back and got my GED. ButUnknown Speaker 22:14 I know that they've got a at the vocational schools at home in Tennessee, they've got a maintenance training program,Unknown Speaker 22:20 Southwest Community College, that also you had mentioned thatUnknown Speaker 22:23 you signed up for maintenance, you might want to, I think it's just about a six month or a year program. And then you get in, like, at one of the factors maintain all machines and stuff.Unknown Speaker 22:33 But really, really, I don't know what what would youUnknown Speaker 22:37 if you could do anything all you wanted to do, what would you do I mean of education. And stay there. Now, that's not that's not one of the options. What would you do you do anything in the world? And you know, just I would be this?Unknown Speaker 22:56 I don't know. Honest. You know, that's why I'm so something about Coleman and kind of, you know, I've often when I was growing up and stuff, they say it's in your blood once you've been married is any blur in life. And what's, you know, what's you been there, and being a coal miner out? It's just like a guy interviewed me back during the strike last summer. He said, well said, you know, if you don't go back to work, what are you going to do? I said, it's good question. What am I going to do Coal mining is all I know. Well, letUnknown Speaker 23:25 me ask you this question. Did you ever remarry? Yes. So you had and kids you got,Unknown Speaker 23:32 I've got a son and I married a guy that had four kids. So for a period of time, I was working at the mines and had five kids at home. SoUnknown Speaker 23:44 you're taking care of five, youUnknown Speaker 23:45 know, a lot of work but they're all about grown. Now. My son's in. He's a junior in high school this year. He's the youngest. What doUnknown Speaker 23:53 you see for him? Is he going to finish high school and going to college or go to work or going?Unknown Speaker 23:58 Or no, he's not well, I took him about three weeks ago to a strip man operation at West Virginia and he was fascinated with that. He said if I ever mined coal mom it's gonna be like yes. And I said, Well, if you ever know that's what I want you to do, because you can be outside where you can either see the sunshine or the star shine ward. You know, IUnknown Speaker 24:15 decided if I had worked in the my job would be driving the coal truck.Unknown Speaker 24:21 Like they let us go up on the dragline he was fascinated with that big dragline they've got out to our hallway. Cool. But he's he has plans and he's talked about it for a long time, which I'm trying to talk him into going into the Air Force.Unknown Speaker 24:38 How do you your husband and what kind of work does he do? He'sUnknown Speaker 24:42 a I'm divorced again. Okay. But he's coal miner right. Oh BarkBox with me.Unknown Speaker 24:52 Has it? Has your has your work contributed to your Your difficulty with statement? Dried is, I guess, it's hard to work with somebody. And so I've heard a lot of people say that you know that some people they work together, but it's really hard for most people the data is, and do you think men feel threatened? I know they do you do you think they feel threatened by the idea of, of it takes away some of their male superiority or ego or whatever? And that that's true, andUnknown Speaker 25:31 then we'll be stuck getting that?Unknown Speaker 25:37 Well, you know, part of part of what I try to do with the interviewer is not just find out about the job and work and all that but the person and what your attitudes are and getting in terms of attitudes now, what was it like, growing up around here? And getting back to the three major questions? What was it like growing up around here and was everything cold centered, andUnknown Speaker 26:04 for as long as I can remember, it has been so it was not Oh, man in his bail all of the communities. And just like last time, we come through originally until you're like cannon County, and stuff, you know, coal mine and built all these places.Unknown Speaker 26:21 Is it mostly union mind, non union mind and? Well, theUnknown Speaker 26:25 union man, it's there's always been a combination of both, but union man is going farther and farther away. We've got all kinds of little contract mines and all kinds of little doll Coast non union mindset that seeing around here.Unknown Speaker 26:44 Now the name of the the organization that y'all have, what's the name of that? Again?Unknown Speaker 26:48 The coal employment project ColinUnknown Speaker 26:50 farmer project do you hold? Are you part of that group? Do you hold a leadership position? AreUnknown Speaker 26:56 you part of the group and I'm the board member for the southern Appalachian region.Unknown Speaker 27:01 Okay, and how many regions are there for and they areUnknown Speaker 27:05 the southern Appalachian Northern, northern Appalachian Midwest, and Western,Unknown Speaker 27:13 like West like,Unknown Speaker 27:15 we've got a bunch of women monitors out west, and places. We've got a bunch on the Navajo Nation, Navajo sisters that work on the Navajo Nation, man and for Peabody and New Mexico in New Mexico. Arizona,Unknown Speaker 27:31 is just our next project.Unknown Speaker 27:35 Your save waterUnknown Speaker 27:38 TNM PNM? Well, now, what are some of the goals? So you're the board member and the CO employment project? What are some of the goals of the organization? And is it an outgrowth of? Is it an outgrowth of the Union? Or is it is a thing by itself? Or is it aUnknown Speaker 27:59 it's a it's, it's out by itself, which means we are affiliated with the union and our international president has endorsed our conference for the last 16 years. So it's been around for right. They haven't we'll just okay. Well, they've been endorsed it for a little over 10 years now. But anyway, yeah. We're an outreach organization. We try to get women miners to get tried. We've, it's kind of the support group support. Yeah. For our women, miners scattered out all over this country who are here. Yeah. And other non traditional work,Unknown Speaker 28:45 who also, like, say, for instance,Unknown Speaker 28:49 organization was, was formed to help women get jobs in the coal mines. Because when they first when we first started the Battle of trying to get into mines, itUnknown Speaker 28:58 was a battle. Now, it's trying to keep women in mind right now. We'reUnknown Speaker 29:02 trying to keep women into mines and trying to keep the ones that we've got into minds together and knowledgeable of what's going on everywhere else in coal mines. DoUnknown Speaker 29:09 y'all have a newsletter or Yes, where does that rosette come out?Unknown Speaker 29:14 It comes out of our offices in Danville, Virginia,Unknown Speaker 29:17 and okay, how many members we have?Unknown Speaker 29:23 I'm not sure I'd say maybe 200 provider.Unknown Speaker 29:29 How many members do you have?Unknown Speaker 29:33 Basic membership.Unknown Speaker 29:37 We have about 10 support groups. And then there's people that are active in the support groups and they be sold on the fringe,Unknown Speaker 29:47 while I was trying to do was figure out how the groups connect with each other, you know, how you how you keep them coordinated. That's what I was lookingUnknown Speaker 29:54 for. We've got to support groups in different areas, just like we've got one here in southwest Virginia. We've got PennsylvaniaUnknown Speaker 30:02 and then the newsletter, the newsletter, then is kind of your yourUnknown Speaker 30:08 we got, we've got over 2000 on the mailing list for over four hours. Okay, that's what I'm overseas, overseas in up.Unknown Speaker 30:18 Oh, and it goes over. So where does it go to overseasUnknown Speaker 30:21 to Great Britain and Australia, Germany?Unknown Speaker 30:24 Did those women come to the conference?Unknown Speaker 30:26 We've had several great, several women from Great Britain. I had a lady from Australia last year and auxilary member from Australia. And we're having a lady from Germany.Unknown Speaker 30:39 Was it? What was it? Like? Did they have the same concerns were they did they have different concerns? They'veUnknown Speaker 30:45 got mostly the same concerns because what's going on over there is in Great Britain, they've got union minds, okay, they're in a privatization that you're going on over now. They're closing all their union minds. And that's about it. Let's go over about coal profitable I grew up as non union miners no doubt, you know, somewhere down the line here for longUnknown Speaker 31:06 so the thing that you're seeing happening in the coal industry hereUnknown Speaker 31:10 is happening worldwide?Unknown Speaker 31:14 I think so I think it is. Yeah. So so then the things that are happening here in coal is not just here and it's notUnknown Speaker 31:24 just not in Virginia and in the United States it's it's everywhere. The Walton today big corporations and government is wanting to do away with how unionized labor in the coal industry and go to these countries like Colombia and South America and Indonesia and stuff and and let them work these people for nothing and get their call from there. That's what they're that's what looks like to me they're doing anyway. No safety standard stuff, kill them off by the 1000s back with them and go Well, that's what the bill WhatUnknown Speaker 32:02 do you think that the, in terms of safety in terms of the things they have to do for safety? Does it significantly increase the cost of coal or I mean, does it have you done studies on that to where you say it adds like safety adds $2 a ton or $3 a ton? What's the cost difference in having as opposed to sake man unsafe man? Oh, waitUnknown Speaker 32:25 to see where the they hardly any difference in cost wise because state and federal government mandates the safety laws and stuff and anybody that's in the coal mine and business out to care enough about to people weren't informed him to safety conditions, you know, regardless of what even does I had calls toUnknown Speaker 32:44 their color wouldn't know what I'm wondering, though, is just how much I don't have any idea. It would be interesting to find out like, you know, are they willing to sacrifice everybody for $3 a timeUnknown Speaker 33:01 to me, but you know, I'm sure that theseUnknown Speaker 33:07 people so mom for a long long time will take some safety precautions for themUnknown Speaker 33:17 to keep it from getting covered up and filed up for the can't use it. They really do. They make you fight for them. You're not gonna get hurt. Right. Most of them have an attitude like that.Unknown Speaker 33:37 So do you Well, no, that brings up another that brings up another question. I guess we're I guess I'm hearing conservative opinions. They don't really give a damn about the hell. They you. Do you? How do you feel like about the attitude of the owners and more importantly, the government safety inspectors? Are they really genuinely concerned who in that equation is genuinely concerned about the safety of the minor and who isn't?Unknown Speaker 34:10 We have some inspectors that are genuinely concerned and I have seen that try to do a good job and try to make you know make the company uphold the safety laws and stuff. I have seen table them in the 15 years I've been underground and I have seen several that would look the other way and really not care. You know, I had a federal mine inspector come in, inspect a piece of equipment for me several years ago that was unsafe to run. I had a big battle with the company over it and stuff and it was a bobblehead guileless, I was paying and talk and it's worth buying is considered the most dangerous job, man soUnknown Speaker 34:52 you want a good piece of equipment to work with, right?Unknown Speaker 34:53 You know, naturally if you're a pangolin pNFS worth you gonna want something they operate right? Every time ever tab. Well, this piece of equipment was worn completely out. Every time I go it has two floor jacks on it did you set up the station to stationary, that piece of equipment for you real? Well, the inside Jack, when you went to put it on the ground, it would kick in and it would throw that machine up in the air. And if you had, you know, if you had to canopy raised it either slap it up against the top and some and there were several times that it would kick it up and throw it plumb over into the region. And anyway, we had a big confrontation over there and they weren't and fix it. So I called federal inspectors Anna and I had federal inspector first work come check it out, come up our and watched me operate it told me at well, I asked him I said do you think it's safe to operate this painter the way it's the way it's done? He said no. I said it's not safe the way it's jumping up our way he walks several feet away from me he talks to a couple of company officials comes back and talks to our safety right union safety rep comes back up or her arm and asked me if I'll run that piece of equipment the rest of the day anyway. So give them let him go to the other sections. Look at the other Panthers in the minds and see what they can figure out to do to fix that. And then I was operating told me as unsafe and in turn around asked me to run it anyway. And stuff like this. Don't get it with me. IUnknown Speaker 36:25 want to tell you what not.Unknown Speaker 36:27 I told him I said Well, last year, it looks like I'm going to be forced to run it. I say but I'm going to tell you now that if I get hurt and I'm lucky enough to Liam summit, I will bring action against you in the company. So it's kind of stuff you know, you're getting into a lot of this stuff your work. Yeah, I had to finish operating it. And anyway is a big battle. I ended up off work seeing the psychiatrists for about 10 months outright they because I had a nervous breakdown. I had nightmares and well, the week after I came out it fell over on the gospel like the if it had not been for a bunch of South Korea that would probably crushed his Lake and food. And that night they took it out of service and it's never been run again since. So So itUnknown Speaker 37:18 finally did it finally did get resolved. It tookUnknown Speaker 37:22 long enough though. And I'm surprised they didn't get somebody to wear all the pieces with you know, rookie. All right. I'm glad. I'm glad it didn't happen that way. But yeah, but yeah, it's a shame that you'd have equipment like enter and that you'd raise the issue with them. And they'll know for a fact you know, anybody that knows anything about mine and can come and look at something like that know that it shouldn't be operated. And then they'll stand up and take possession that you got do it anyway.Unknown Speaker 37:46 So I guess I guess that answers the question about are the caricatures? That's exactly what do you see a numberUnknown Speaker 37:54 on the paper for lamp easily replaced I saw with somebody else after it's been off for a while, then I'll take it and come right on.Unknown Speaker 38:04 What do you see? Well, we've already kind of talked about the future and everything we've talked about. We kind of got everything reverse, but we got it. We got off track. But it's a good interview, there's going to be there's some good stuff in here. I can tell just by the stuff we're seeing, like, you know, talking about exactly how the equipment works and all those kinds of things. I think that'll give people an idea that you know, there's some there's some you know, they don't just go out here and hunt a coal miner and say, Oh, here's somebody that's been lobotomized. Let's take it take some sand stop right this metallic machinery it's true and I think that's good that you've got it all in and they're probably every job that you did in there you could you could give that same description and you know about how technically difficult it is to operate all that equipment.Unknown Speaker 38:58 Or yet it's it's up to be underground in the dark and retinas let meUnknown Speaker 39:04 that's another thing you know getting into this idea about I think people they think yeah Nik he just can't handle it just can't handle it. And well and that's what I was you know what you were thinking about what you're thinking what while you're down there for eight hours a day in the door.Unknown Speaker 39:23 I'm down there for nine and a quarter hours a day now. Okay, there is no contractUnknown Speaker 39:30 for a year and a quarter hoursUnknown Speaker 39:33 no mandatory overtime my footUnknown Speaker 39:35 how much What do you think about while you're down there do you think aboutUnknown Speaker 39:41 think about sunshine whole lot you know you cannot you cannot go underground and think about all the things that could happen while you're there. You cannot go under like said the shaft we go down It's 15 163 feet deep. We go back into the mountains in nice places in our I'm sure that were two bedroom 2000 3000 feet underground, you get that much rock on top here, you cannot go in or think about all that stuff because it'll drive you batty. And you can't stay.Unknown Speaker 40:18 Right? That's right. I guess what I'm saying though is is that you know, a skilled worker, after you learn your job, you know, you're concentrating on what you're doing but at the same time, you think about it. I just wondered what but you're saying you the main thing you think about status yesterday? Well in all right, you can't do a laundromat safety conscious, but not you do youUnknown Speaker 40:45 have to keep an attitude of, of constantly, especially with the job I got of constantly observing what's going on around you. It's like set up pan, pan Tom,Unknown Speaker 40:57 like you go into a factory or something like that you're gonnaUnknown Speaker 41:06 advance in every day, the same?Unknown Speaker 41:13 Genre, then you were then you were and you don't know what's out there. Right. So it's always the unknown. Part of the challenge, I started to say, I think one of the things too, that I've discovered in doing all these interviews and and being around minors is that I think it's very, it's very romantic in the sense that people have this idea of when they go into mines every day. It's like, well, you know, this is a dangerous job. What's going to happen today What challenges do I have to face what do I have to do to stay alive you know, so So there's a big part is are you saying there's a big part of that that's an element in it you know, it is and the people that like that I didn't feel comfortable with that are the ones that stay in the mines for a long time. And the ones that can't can't deal with that the unknown right?Unknown Speaker 42:04 But the job I've got likes it of being a top I get to be I'm kind of like the first guy went to the moon walk in where no man has walked before I get to do it every day. Not even not even the guys that take the coal while they're you know they go in are taken out but they cannot go past that last all boats to live you are for I do I gotta go in past that lifeboat row of bolts and put in other bolts so they can come back take out more cold.Unknown Speaker 42:32 So you liked it.Unknown Speaker 42:34 I like it better. Anything else I've done in there so far. Now let me ask you this except for dispatch. I'd rather sit outside in the office and control the traffic underground. Y'all Okay, do you have any?Unknown Speaker 43:02 says I've been there is the traffic.Unknown Speaker 43:06 Let me ask you this. This is just a general question that's not related to the interview. John fleet really wants to go down under and shoot a woman working? Do you think the company would let him come down and shoot, shoot, shoot him and see? And who would we need to do it? Do we need to call him? Well console. Consolidated or do justUnknown Speaker 43:36 console they pay six manUnknown Speaker 43:39 VPS six V. VP, right? What does that VPSUnknown Speaker 43:43 Virginia Pocahontas. Division. That's what the VP stands for Virginia. Pocahontas number six.Unknown Speaker 43:50 Number six. And that's where you're working now.Unknown Speaker 43:53 Right? That's where I'm at now.Unknown Speaker 43:54 And you know, the office number. It's 498767765776Unknown Speaker 44:07 there is the man numbers are at the mine. Who's thisUnknown Speaker 44:11 man superintendent there,Unknown Speaker 44:12 Steve in the commons? What kind of guys? A's we're just getting acquainted. So Happy Friday. I know he goes to church. And he's a big boy. He's a big guy.Unknown Speaker 44:31 Oh from Philadelphia. So they movedUnknown Speaker 44:33 him in here when the console took over last summer. But anyway, you can talk to him and IUnknown Speaker 44:42 will now the reason I was going to ask to was Fred Brown who works for the Knoxville News Sentinel. Y'all get that up in here. Don't use the I don't think come so what they want to do but anyway, I know John Police wants to do it and get a shot. So we could come we can make a special trip back up here. Just for that because he wants to get what he calls an environmental shot, you know, after doing your bolter I don't want to go down he wants to go down shootUnknown Speaker 45:10 no I've been in a cave I've been in salt peter KUnknown Speaker 45:23 I'm such a weenie I could probably do aUnknown Speaker 45:30 tour during when the hotel want those come and watch Yeah. Oh,Unknown Speaker 45:38 shoot some shots while she's working.Unknown Speaker 45:42 Today like you said you can Carwin Oh call he if he don't want to help him you might want to call the headquarters up. Okay, let'sUnknown Speaker 45:51 do one. One more question here. All right, be done. I think what if you had to put your whole experience down you squashed it down into one thing? You reduced your to one bland, one sentence? What would you say? You're like, you're in the coalfields and all of it good, bad, indifferent.Unknown Speaker 46:14 It's been an experience. Well, it's, you know, for most part, it's good. That have to say that, you know, which I went like, say it in the 15 years I've spent over I've done some bad luck. But overall, I'm glad it's what I've done. Sometimes I wish that I chose something else. It's been one of those times that 15 years that I chose to be in something besides besides a coal miner and when I was growing up little girl growing up my grandfather he was coal mine or my uncle's coal miners, both no brothers as coal miners and stuff and twin you're a little kid dreaming of what you're going to be when you grow up. Coal mining never I never remember coal mine neverUnknown Speaker 46:58 dream you wanted to be.Unknown Speaker 47:00 I was I was gonna be a nurse or a school teacher. One. These traditional women's jobs, you know,Unknown Speaker 47:05 thought about have you signed up to be a radical woman. Have you thought about getting into either one of those professions when you get out? Because 20 years you're like you say it 38 You'll still be a young woman you'd go to college and and get a degree andUnknown Speaker 47:24 meditateTranscribed by https://otter.ai
